L1:Hydrogel loaded with bone marrow stromal cell-derived exosomes promotes bone regeneration by inhibiting inflammatory responses and angiogenesis
L12:To investigate the underlying mechanism by which hydrogel-loaded exosomes derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) facilitate the process of fracture healing.
L20:Hydrogel; Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; Macrophage polarization; Angiogenesis; Bone regeneration
L23:Bone marrow-derived MSC (BMSC), a type of MSC, play a crucial role in osteogenesis and tissue repair[ 5 ]. BMSCs can migrate from their niche into the peripheral circulation and cross vessel walls to reach target tissues[ 6 , 7 ]. The homing and repair ability of BMSCs in injured tissues is a complex process. Previous studies have demonstrated that angiogenesis factors interact with BMSCs, thereby regulating downstream osteogenesis. Specifically, vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) stimulates platelet-derived growth factor receptors, thus modulating the migration and proliferation of BMSCs[ 8 ].
L28:All animal studies were performed according to the principles and procedures approved by the Ethics Committee of Zhejiang University of Chinese Medicine (Zhejiang, China). C57BL/6 mice within 24 h of birth were used to acquire osteoblasts, and 8-wk-old male BALB/c mice were used to establish a fracture model. After acclimatization, BALB/c mice were operated on under anesthesia. An 8-mm long skin incision was made on the femur, and blunt dissection of the muscle was used to expose the midshaft of the femur. Mid-diaphyseal femur fractures were created using a rotary Dremel with a diamond blade attachment. A 25-gauge needle was inserted into the medullary canal of the femur from the distal end. BMSC-exo hydrogels (20 μL) were wrapped around the fractured femur, and the incision was closed with nylon sutures. Buprenorphine (0.05 mg/kg IP) was administered every 6-12 h over 3 d postfracture. After 30-d maintenance, callus formation and fracture healing in mice were detected by radiographs and micro-computed tomography.
L55:Figure 1 Characterization of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell- and HEK293-derived exosomes.  A: Particle size distribution of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)-derived and HEK293-derived exosomes (BMSC-exo and HEK293-exo, respectively) detected by NanoSight; the mean diameter is 150 nm; B: Representative images of the morphology of BMSC-exo and HEK293-exo  via  transmission electron microscopy; C: Western blot identification of exosome surface markers; D: Expression of BMSC-exo and HEK293-exo protein; E: Internalization of PKH26-labeled exosomes within mouse osteoblast progenitor cells by fluorescence microscopy, Scale bar: 50 μm. BMSC-exo: Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome.
L58:Figure 2 Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome and HEK293-derived exosome promoted migration and angiogenesis of mouse osteoblast progenitor cells.  A: Mouse osteoblast progenitor cells (mOPCSs) with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)-derived exosome (BMSC-exo) or HEK293-exo stained by crystal violet in Transwell assays. BMSC-exo enhanced cell migration, Scale bar: 50 μm; B: Alkaline phosphatase staining of mOPCSs with BMSC-exo or HEK293-exo internalization for one week. Scale bar: 50 μm; C: Alizarin red staining of treated mOPCSs after osteogenic induction for two weeks. Scale bar: 50 μm; D and E: mRNA and protein expression of genes associated with osteogenesis (Runx2, OPN, and Osterix) in BMSC-exo and HEK293-exo-treated mOPCSs. BMSC-exo: Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome; PBS: Phosphate buffered saline; ALP: Alkaline phosphatase.
L64:Figure 4 Fabrication and efficacy of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome-treated hydrogel.  A: Cells proliferation of mouse osteoblast progenitor cells (mOPCSs) with different treatments by fluorescence microscopy; B: mOPCSs with hydrogel or bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)-derived exosome (BMSC-exo)-treated hydrogel stained by crystal violet in Transwell assays. Hydrogel + BMSC-exo enhanced cell migration, Scale bar: 50 μm; C: Alkaline phosphatase staining of mOPCSs treated with hydrogel or hydrogel + BMSC-exo for one week. Scale bar: 50 μm; D: Alizarin red staining of mOPCSs with different treatments after osteogenic induction for two weeks. Scale bar: 50 μm; E and F: mRNA and protein expression of genes associated with osteogenesis (Runx2, OPN, and Osterix) in mOPCSs with different treatments.  a P  < 0.05. BMSC-exo: Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome; PBS: Phosphate buffered saline; DAPI: 4’,6’-diaminido-2-phenylindole; ALP: Alkaline phosphatase.
L67:Figure 5 Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome hydrogels effectively suppressed the inflammatory response of macrophages while facilitating angiogenesis.  A: Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assessment of mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, CD16, arginase-1, CD206, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, and IL-10 in RAW264.7 cells cultured on hydrogels with or without bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)-derived exosome (BMSC-exo) for 24 h; B: Expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, TGF-β, and IL-10 cytokines was assessed in RAW264.7 macrophages across different experimental groups; C: Cells proliferation of mouse osteoblast progenitor cells (mOPCSs) co-cultured with human umbilical vein endothelial cell in different groups by fluorescence microscopy; D: Tube formation assay of mOPCs in different groups. Scale bar: 50 μm; E and F: Scratch wound healing assay and Transwell migration assay of mOPCSs in different groups. The hydrogel + BMSC-exo group demonstrated enhanced migration, Scale bar: 50 μm; G and H: mRNA and protein expression of angiogenesis markers (vascular endothelial growth factor A, CD34, and cyclooxygenase-2) in mOPCSs in different groups.  a P  < 0.05. TNF: Tumor necrosis factor; IL: Interleukin; MCP-1: Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1; Arg-1: Arginase-1; TGF: Transforming growth factor; VEGFA: Vascular endothelial growth factor A; COX-2: Cyclooxygenase-2; BMSC-exo: Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome; PBS: Phosphate buffered saline.
L69:To evaluate hydrogel performance  in vivo , mouse diaphysial fractures were treated with hydrogels containing or lacking BMSC-exo. Subsequently, the regenerated bone tissue from the mouse femur was collected for histological analysis, which revealed that treatment with BMSC-exo hydrogel increased bone formation and reduced cartilage at 30 d postinjury compared with both the PBS and hydrogel-only groups (Figure  6A  and  B ). The reparative capacity of bone was assessed from multiple perspectives, demonstrating that BMSC-exo hydrogel enhanced the strength and toughness of regenerated bone by exhibiting higher maximum load, stiffness, and energy absorption upon failure (Figure  6C  and  D ). Consistent with the  in vitro  findings, angiogenic markers (VEGFA and COX2) exhibited high expression levels in bone tissue treated with BMSC-exo hydrogels (Figure  6E  and  F ). Therefore, BMSC-exo hydrogels could effectively promote fracture healing and angiogenesis  in vivo .
L70:Figure 6 Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome hydrogel promoted fracture healing and angiogenesis  in vivo .  A: Alcian blue and orange G staining of regenerated bone sections treated by hydrogels with or without bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)-derived exosome (BMSC-exo) on week 2 and week 4 after fracture; B: Hematoxylin-eosin staining of regenerated bone tissues; C and D: Maximum load, stiffness, and energy absorbed for failure or repaired bone; E and F: mRNA and protein expression of angiogenesis markers (vascular endothelial growth factor A and cyclooxygenase-2) in fracture healing model treated by hydrogels with or without BMSC-exo.  n  = 6,  a P  < 0.05. VEGFA: Vascular endothelial growth factor A; COX-2: Cyclooxygenase-2; BMSC-exo: Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome; PBS: Phosphate buffered saline.
L78:Repairing large bone defects is a major challenge for plastic surgeons, and autologous bone transplantation is currently the best treatment option. However, its application is limited due to scarce resources and complications. Exosomes derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown great potential in bone regenerative medicine, but they face issues such as rapid degradation, short half-life, and unpredictable side effects. Bone marrow stromal cells play a crucial role in bone formation and tissue repair by migrating from their niche to surrounding tissues and promoting regeneration. The interaction between angiogenic factors and bone marrow-derived MSCs (BMSCs) regulates downstream osteogenesis; for example, vascular endothelial growth factor A can stimulate platelet-derived growth factor receptors to modulate the migration and proliferation of BMSCs.
L96:4 Liao HT Chen CT Osteogenic potential: Comparison between bone marrow and adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells World J Stem Cells 2014 6 288 295 25126378
L98:6 Funari A Alimandi M Pierelli L Pino V Gentileschi S Sacchetti B Human Sinusoidal Subendothelial Cells Regulate Homing and Invasion of Circulating Metastatic Prostate Cancer Cells to Bone Marrow Cancers (Basel) 2019 11
L99:7 Sacchetti B Funari A Michienzi S Di Cesare S Piersanti S Saggio I Tagliafico E Ferrari S Robey PG Riminucci M Bianco P Self-renewing osteoprogenitors in bone marrow sinusoids can organize a hematopoietic microenvironment Cell 2007 131 324 336 17956733
L103:11 Liu L Guo S Shi W Liu Q Huo F Wu Y Tian W Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Derived Small Extracellular Vesicles Promote Periodontal Regeneration Tissue Eng Part A 2021 27 962 976 32962564
