L1:HIF-1 regulates mitochondrial function in bone marrow-derived macrophages but not in tissue-resident alveolar macrophages
L7:HIF-1α plays a critical role in shaping macrophage phenotype and effector function. We have previously shown that tissue-resident alveolar macrophages (TR-AMs) have extremely low glycolytic capacity at steady-state but can shift toward glycolysis under hypoxic conditions. Here, we generated mice with tamoxifen-inducible myeloid lineage cell specific deletion of  Hif1a  ( Hif1a fl/fl : LysM-CreERT2 +/− ) and from these mice, we isolated TR-AMs and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) in which  Hif1a  is deleted. We show that TR-AM HIF-1α is required for the glycolytic shift under prolyl hydroxylase inhibition but is dispensable at steady-state for inflammatory effector function. In contrast, HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs led to diminished glycolytic capacity at steady-state and reduced inflammatory capacity, but higher mitochondrial function. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed enhanced c-Myc transcriptional activity in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs, and upregulation of gene pathways related to ribosomal biogenesis and cellular proliferation. We conclude that HIF-1α regulates mitochondrial function in BMDMs but not in TR-AMs. The findings highlight the heterogeneity of HIF-1α function in distinct macrophage populations and provide new insight into how HIF-1α regulates gene expression, inflammation, and metabolism in different types of macrophages.
L9:Alveolar macrophage; Bone marrow-derived macrophage; HIF-1α; Metabolism; Mitochondria; Inflammation; Cell biology; Energy metabolism; Metabolomics
L11:It is well-established that glycolytic metabolism plays a central role in regulating immune cell effector function 1 – 5 . As the field of immunometabolism grew, it has become more apparent that tissue-specific conditions lead to unique metabolic characteristics that often fall outside of the conventional framework ascribed to broader immune cell populations 6 – 8 . For instance, while bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) rely predominantly on glycolysis for proinflammatory processes, we have found glycolysis to be dispensable for inflammation in tissue-resident alveolar macrophages (TR-AMs) 9 . It is likely that the unique environment of the alveolar lumen dictates the metabolic needs of TR-AMs 10 . Glucose concentrations within the airway are approximately one-tenth of those observed in the blood, and oxygen levels are the highest of any compartment within the human body making oxidative phosphorylation a more efficient means of metabolism for TR-AMs 6 , 11 . While TR-AMs do not conduct glycolysis under steady-state conditions, they can be pushed toward a glycolytic phenotype under severe hypoxia such as in cases of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) where lung oxygenation is impaired 12 . Further highlighting the role of the alveolar niche in dictating cellular phenotype, BMDMs, peritoneal macrophages, and macrophage precursors transplanted into the airway acquire phenotypical characteristics associated with TR-AM identity 8 , 13 . Together, these findings show that TR-AMs reside in a unique environment that negates the need for glycolytic metabolism under steady-state conditions.
L12:It is widely understood that the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) is a key regulator of glycolysis, particularly at low oxygen concentrations 14 . Under normoxia, HIF-1α is marked for proteasomal degradation by oxygen-dependent prolyl hydroxylases. In contrast, under hypoxia, prolyl hydroxylase activity is diminished so that HIF-1α accumulates and can enter the nucleus to promote transcriptional adaptation to low oxygen levels. Much of the HIF-1α transcriptional response relates to cell survival under oxygen depleted conditions, including upregulation of genes related to glycolysis, angiogenesis, and cell survival. In macrophages of monocytic origin, HIF-1α functions outside the context of the hypoxic response. HIF-1α has been shown to be a key regulator of macrophage migration and proinflammatory processes 15 – 18 . Both HIF-1α and glycolysis are induced in BMDMs treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), but whether HIF-1α is required for the observed glycolytic reprograming or just for inflammatory processes remains unknown. Moreover, HIF-1α behaves differently in TR-AMs 12 , 19 . As we have shown, hypoxia induces HIF-1α stabilization in TR-AMs, but not in BMDMs 12 . HIF-1α and its target genes are downregulated in TR-AMs following birth, and this downregulation is required for normal TR-AM maturation and function 19 . Thus, the full extent for how HIF-1α regulates macrophage function remains unclear.
L13:To gain a more complete understanding of how HIF-1α regulates macrophage metabolism and effector function, we deleted HIF-1α from both BMDMs and TR-AMs and performed metabolic and immunological assays. We found that deletion of HIF-1α in mature TR-AMs had no effect on steady-state metabolic function or gene expression. Phenotypical alterations only became apparent in the presence of prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor FG-4592 where HIF-1α knockout TR-AMs failed to take on a glycolytic phenotype and remained highly susceptible to cell death in the presence of electron transport chain (ETC) inhibitors. Conversely, HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs greatly diminished their glycolytic capabilities at both steady-state and in the presence of FG-4592, sensitizing these cells to ETC inhibitor-induced cell death. HIF-1α knockout BMDMs presented with higher mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle metabolite levels, and ETC gene and protein expression compared to controls. This was not the case with TR-AMs.
L14:We found that neither HIF-1α nor glycolysis was induced in TR-AMs upon LPS stimulation, and that TR-AMs with HIF-1α knockout exhibited no observable alterations in TCA cycle metabolite levels or cytokine production. In contrast, deletion of HIF-1α in BMDMs led to reductions in LPS-induced glycolysis, but the magnitude of the response did not differ substantially from control BMDMs. HIF-1α knockout BMDMs also exhibited reductions in cytokine production but presented with higher TCA cycle metabolite levels following LPS treatment. Gene set enrichment analysis of HIF-1α knockout BMDMs revealed the upregulation c-Myc-dependent transcriptional programs, including genes related to ribosomal biogenesis and cellular proliferation. Collectively, these findings highlight the heterogeneity of HIF-1α function in distinct macrophage populations and provide new insight into how HIF-1α regulates inflammation and metabolism in macrophages.
L16:HIF-1α deletion alters transcriptome both at baseline and following treatment with a HIF-1α stabilizer in BMDMs but only after HIF-1α stabilizer in TR-AMs
L17:We have recently demonstrated that TR-AMs have a very low glycolytic capacity at steady-state but can be pushed toward a glycolytic phenotype under hypoxic conditions 12 . Whether this metabolic reprogramming depends on HIF-1α is unknown. To study the role of HIF-1α in metabolic reprogramming in TR-AMs, we generated mice with tamoxifen-inducible myeloid lineage cell specific deletion of  Hif1a  ( Hif1a fl/fl : LysM-CreERT2 +/− ) by crossing  Hif1a fl/fl  mice ( B6.129-Hif1a tm3Rsjo/ J ) (Jackson Strain #: 007561) with  LysM-CreERT2 +/−  mice (heterozygous for inducible Cre recombinase) ( Lyz2 tm1(cre/ERT2)Grtn/ J ) (Jackson Strain #: 031674). Using these mice, we deleted HIF-1α in TR-AMs and BMDMs (Fig.  1 A, D) respectively. Successful deletion of HIF-1α was confirmed by measurement of  Hif1a  exon 2 expression by qPCR (Supplementary Fig.  S1 ). For simplicity, we will refer to TR-AMs and BMDM with inducible deletion of  Hif1a  as  Hif1a −/−  cells. In control ( Hif1a +/+ ) TR-AMs and BMDMs, FG-4592 (a potent prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor, which stabilizes HIF-1α protein) caused a similar induction of HIF-1α expression (Supplementary Fig. S2). Deletion of  Hif1a  led to loss of FG-4592-induced stabilization of HIF-1α protein as expected (Fig.  1 A, D). To determine the role of HIF-1α in transcriptional activity in TR-AMs and BMDMs, we performed RNA-sequencing. Both  Hif1a +/+  and  Hif1a −/−  macrophages were treated overnight with FG-4592 or left untreated. We found that loss of HIF-1α in TR-AMs resulted in minimal changes in gene expression at baseline with only 10 observed significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs, Log2 fold change ≥ 1 and  p  ≤ 0.05) (8 upregulated and 2 downregulated) when compared to controls (Fig.  1 B, Supplementary Fig. S3A). Treatment of control ( Hif1a +/+ ) TR-AMs with FG-4592 led to 953 DEGs (522 upregulated and 431 downregulated). Compared to control TR-AMs, the effect of FG-4592 was greatly diminished in  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs which exhibited 197 DEGs (157 upregulated and 40 downregulated). Heatmap analysis for HIF-1α target genes confirmed that  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs exhibited a greatly diminished response to FG-4592 in a HIF-1α specific manner (Fig.  1 C).
L18:Fig. 1 HIF-1α deletion alters transcriptome both at baseline and following treatment with a HIF-1α stabilizer in BMDMs but only after HIF-1α stabilizer in TR-AMs. TR-AMs ( A–C ) and BMDMs ( D–F ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  D ) Western blot analysis of nuclear extracts to verify successful HIF-1α knockout in our transgenic system. ( B ,  E ) Clustering of samples based on RNA-seq gene expression profiles using t-SNE projection ( C ,  F ) Heatmap analysis of CHEA (ChIP-X Enrichment Analysis) HIF-1α transcription factor targets.
L19:Fig. 1 HIF-1α deletion alters transcriptome both at baseline and following treatment with a HIF-1α stabilizer in BMDMs but only after HIF-1α stabilizer in TR-AMs. TR-AMs ( A–C ) and BMDMs ( D–F ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  D ) Western blot analysis of nuclear extracts to verify successful HIF-1α knockout in our transgenic system. ( B ,  E ) Clustering of samples based on RNA-seq gene expression profiles using t-SNE projection ( C ,  F ) Heatmap analysis of CHEA (ChIP-X Enrichment Analysis) HIF-1α transcription factor targets.
L20:In contrast to TR-AMs, HIF-1α deletion resulted in significant alterations at baseline in BMDMs with 305 DEGs (121 upregulated and 184 downregulated). After FG-4592 treatment, only 126 DEGs (60 upregulated and 66 downregulated) were observed in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs compared to 694 DEGs (323 upregulated and 371 downregulated) in control BMDMs (Supplementary Fig. S3B). Heatmap analysis for HIF-1α target genes further demonstrated that  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs exhibit significant basal alterations in gene expression and a substantial reduction in their response to FG-4592 in a HIF1α-specific manner (Fig.  1 F).
L21:Collectively, these data validate our previous findings documenting that HIF-1α is dispensable in TR-AMs under steady-state conditions. These data also support the current literature pointing to HIF-1α as a key regulator of normal BMDM transcriptional response and function.
L22:HIF-1α deletion broadly impairs glycolysis in BMDMs but only impairs TR-AM glycolysis following HIF-1α stabilizer treatment
L24:Fig. 2 HIF-1α deletion broadly impairs glycolysis in BMDMs but only impairs TR-AM glycolysis following HIF-1α stabilizer treatment. TR-AMs ( A–E ) and BMDMs ( F–J ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  F ) Using Seahorse XF24 analyzer, glycolysis was measured as extracellular acidification rate (ECAR). Macrophages were treated in succession with glucose, oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor) and 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) (inhibitor of hexokinase 2, or glycolysis). ( B ,  G ) Scatter plots quantifying glycolytic parameters. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 4 wells per group). Significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group *,  p  < 0.05. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+  + FG-4592 #,  p  < 0.05. ( C ,  H ) Heatmap of glycolytic specific gene expression in macrophages. ( D ,  I ) Western blot analysis of macrophage lysates to assess glycolytic protein expression. ( E ,  J ) Macrophages were first treated with FG-4592 for 8 h then treated overnight with mitochondrial inhibitors (500nM Antimycin or 500nM Rotenone). Sulforhodamine B assay was performed to measure cytotoxicity. Graphs represent cell viability compared to control,  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 3 per group). All groups compared against  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group with significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. *,  p  < 0.05 signifies reduced cell viability compared to  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group; #,  p  < 0.05 signifies enhanced viability compared to  Hif1a +/+  Rotenone and Antimycin treated groups.
L25:Fig. 2 HIF-1α deletion broadly impairs glycolysis in BMDMs but only impairs TR-AM glycolysis following HIF-1α stabilizer treatment. TR-AMs ( A–E ) and BMDMs ( F–J ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  F ) Using Seahorse XF24 analyzer, glycolysis was measured as extracellular acidification rate (ECAR). Macrophages were treated in succession with glucose, oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor) and 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) (inhibitor of hexokinase 2, or glycolysis). ( B ,  G ) Scatter plots quantifying glycolytic parameters. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 4 wells per group). Significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group *,  p  < 0.05. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+  + FG-4592 #,  p  < 0.05. ( C ,  H ) Heatmap of glycolytic specific gene expression in macrophages. ( D ,  I ) Western blot analysis of macrophage lysates to assess glycolytic protein expression. ( E ,  J ) Macrophages were first treated with FG-4592 for 8 h then treated overnight with mitochondrial inhibitors (500nM Antimycin or 500nM Rotenone). Sulforhodamine B assay was performed to measure cytotoxicity. Graphs represent cell viability compared to control,  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 3 per group). All groups compared against  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group with significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. *,  p  < 0.05 signifies reduced cell viability compared to  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group; #,  p  < 0.05 signifies enhanced viability compared to  Hif1a +/+  Rotenone and Antimycin treated groups.
L26:Our previous work demonstrated that BMDMs have elevated basal levels of HIF-1α compared with TR-AMs and that hypoxia does not increase the glycolytic rate of these cells. Here, we observed that control BMDMs treated with FG-4592 presented with higher ECAR compared to untreated controls (Fig.  2 F). However, this increase in BMDMs was more modest (~ 30%) compared to the 4-fold increase in ECAR following FG-4592 in TR-AMs (Fig.  2 A). Glycolytic gene and protein expression (Fig.  2 H, I and Supplementary Fig. 4B) were also higher in control BMDMs treated with FG-4592. Glycolytic rates were significantly lower in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs, and no observable alterations in the ECAR response were seen with FG-4592 treatment. Glycolytic gene and protein expression were also lower in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs compared to controls and was unaffected by FG-4592 treatment (Fig.  2 H, I and Supplementary Fig. 4B). BMDMs are resistant to ETC inhibition-induced death at baseline but they became sensitized after the loss of HIF-1α (Fig.  2 J). These data demonstrate that deletion of HIF-1α results in impaired glycolysis in both TR-AMs and BMDMs. Consistent with our previous findings that TR-AMs contain very little expression of HIF-1α protein at baseline, we found that loss of HIF-1α does not affect glycolysis in TR-AMs at baseline and affects glycolysis only after treatment with FG-4592. BMDMs, which have high basal levels of HIF-1α exhibited reduction in glycolysis following the loss of  Hif1a  both at baseline and after FG-4592 suggesting that HIF-1α regulates metabolic function in BMDMs both in normoxia as well as during prolyl hydroxylase inhibition.
L27:HIF-1α deletion boosts mitochondrial function in BMDMs but has limited impact on TR-AM mitochondrial function
L28:The effects of HIF-1α deletion on glycolytic function and inflammation have been well-described in BMDMs, but little is known about how HIF-1α deletion impacts mitochondrial function in macrophages 15 . To determine how HIF-1α regulates mitochondrial function, we performed a mitochondrial stress test and found that  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs exhibited basal oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) comparable to untreated controls (Fig.  3 A, B). FG-4592 treated control  Hif1a +/+  TR-AMs exhibited reduced basal OCR, suggesting a shift toward glycolytic ATP production, but they were still able to reach maximal oxygen consumption under FCCP stimulation. This glycolytic shift was confirmed by the reciprocal change in ECAR measurement where control  Hif1a +/+  TR-AMs treated with FG-4592 no longer exhibited reduction in ECAR following rotenone and antimycin A injection whereas  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs treated with FG-4592 showed a reduction in ECAR (Supplementary Fig. S5). Carbonic acid derived from mitochondrial CO 2  can be measured as the ECAR during mitochondrial stress test 20 . The reduction in  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs ECAR after administration of rotenone and antimycin A support the notion that the ECAR is mitochondria-derived carbonic acid, while a lack of ECAR responsiveness in control  Hif1a +/+  TR-AMs signifies glycolytically produced acid. Interestingly, while  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs have higher maximal respiration/spare capacity compared to controls, changes in maximal oxygen consumption appear to have little functional consequence under normal, non-stressed conditions.
L29:Fig. 3 HIF-1α deletion boosts mitochondrial function in BMDMs but has limited impact on TR-AM mitochondrial function. TR-AMs ( A ,  B ) and BMDMs ( C-E ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  C ) Mitochondrial stress test to measure oxygen consumption rate (OCR) using Seahorse XF24 in TR-AMs and BMDMs. Macrophages were treated sequentially with oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor), FCCP (uncoupler) and Rotenone/Antimycin A (complex I and III inhibitor, respectively). ( B ,  D ) Interleaved scatter plots quantifying mitochondrial respiration parameters. Data represents at least 3 experiments ( n  = 4 separate wells per group). Mitochondrial parameters were compared against  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group. Significance was determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test.  (E)  GC-MS metabolite analysis of BMDMs. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 3 replicates per experimental condition). All groups compared against  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group with significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. *,  p  < 0.05.
L30:Fig. 3 HIF-1α deletion boosts mitochondrial function in BMDMs but has limited impact on TR-AM mitochondrial function. TR-AMs ( A ,  B ) and BMDMs ( C-E ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  C ) Mitochondrial stress test to measure oxygen consumption rate (OCR) using Seahorse XF24 in TR-AMs and BMDMs. Macrophages were treated sequentially with oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor), FCCP (uncoupler) and Rotenone/Antimycin A (complex I and III inhibitor, respectively). ( B ,  D ) Interleaved scatter plots quantifying mitochondrial respiration parameters. Data represents at least 3 experiments ( n  = 4 separate wells per group). Mitochondrial parameters were compared against  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group. Significance was determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test.  (E)  GC-MS metabolite analysis of BMDMs. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 3 replicates per experimental condition). All groups compared against  Hif1a +/+  no treatment group with significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. *,  p  < 0.05.
L31:Unlike TR-AMs, control BMDMs treated with FG-4592 showed diminished OCR across all parameters compared to untreated controls. HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs led to significantly higher basal respiration and ATP production compared to controls and the effect of FG-4592 on OCR was greatly diminished (Fig.  3 C, D). In agreement with the OCR data, GC-MS analysis showed that key TCA cycle metabolites were significantly elevated in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs, and that the levels of these metabolites were less responsive to FG-4592 treatment compared to controls (Fig.  3 E).
L32:To bolster our mitochondrial stress test and GC-MS data, we performed western blot analysis using an antibody cocktail that recognizes components of each of the respiratory complexes.  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs did not exhibit any significant alterations in ETC complex protein expression compared to controls, and FG-4592 had no effect on ETC protein expression across all groups (Fig.  4 A). Heatmap analysis of respiratory subunit gene expression revealed that FG-4592 reduced the expression of ETC genes in control  Hif1a +/+  TR-AMs, and that this response was not observed in  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs treated with FG-4592 (Fig.  4 B). Unlike TR-AMs, HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs led to significant increases in protein expression for ETC complexes I-IV (Fig.  4 C and Supplementary Fig. 6). FG-4592 did not alter ETC protein expression in control or  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. Like control TR-AMs, FG-4592 reduced ETC gene expression in control BMDMs, but did not affect ETC gene expression in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs (Fig.  4 D).  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs also had higher basal ETC gene expression than controls correlating with their protein expression data.
L33:Fig. 4 HIF-1α deletion results in increased mitochondrial gene and protein expression in BMDMs, but not TR-AMs. TR-AMs ( A-B ) and BMDMs ( C-D ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  C ) Western blot analysis of macrophage lysates to assess electron transport chain protein expression. ( B ,  D ) Heatmap of gene expression related to oxidative phosphorylation.
L34:Fig. 4 HIF-1α deletion results in increased mitochondrial gene and protein expression in BMDMs, but not TR-AMs. TR-AMs ( A-B ) and BMDMs ( C-D ) were cultured overnight (16 h) in the presence or absence of FG-4592 (25µM). ( A ,  C ) Western blot analysis of macrophage lysates to assess electron transport chain protein expression. ( B ,  D ) Heatmap of gene expression related to oxidative phosphorylation.
L35:Taken together, these data suggest that HIF-1α serves as a negative regulator of mitochondrial function in BMDMs under steady-state conditions. Moreover, HIF-1α stabilization reduces ETC-related gene expression in both TR-AMs and BMDMs, but this does not correlate with the reduction in ETC protein expression, which remains unchanged in the presence of FG-4592.
L36:HIF-1α deletion impairs inflammatory capacity in BMDMs, but not in TR-AMs
L37:The central role of HIF-1α in macrophage inflammation has been well-documented 21 . Here, we wanted to determine more thoroughly the metabolic and inflammatory alterations that occur in the absence of HIF-1α. We and others have shown the immediate upregulation of glycolysis upon LPS exposure in BMDMs 9 , 22 , 23 . To determine if the increase in glycolytic output was mediated by HIF-1α, we treated  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs and controls with LPS to observe changes in ECAR over a five-hour period. Figure  5 A shows that  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs still respond to LPS by immediately upregulating glycolysis. This response is attenuated compared to controls, which is likely a result of  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs having lower glycolytic gene and protein expression (Fig.  2 H, I). While basal ECAR was lower in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs compared to controls, there was no change in the magnitude of glycolytic induction when the ECAR was normalized to percent change (ECAR %) from baseline (Fig.  5 B). This would suggest that HIF-1α is not required for the enhanced glycolysis observed under LPS stimulation. In agreement with these data, the small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown of  Hif1a  in BMDMs did not alter glycolytic responsiveness to LPS (Supplementary Fig. 7A-C). The glycolytic rates of  Hif1a −/−  and control TR-AMs remained unresponsive to LPS injection, which is consistent with our previous findings (Supplementary Fig. S7D) 9 .
L38:Fig. 5 HIF-1α deletion impairs inflammatory capacity in BMDMs. ( A ,  B ) ECAR was measured following acute LPS injection (final concentration: 20 ng/ml) in BMDMs. ECAR data represented both as ( A ) raw values and ( B ) % change from baseline. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 4 separate wells per group). Error bars denote mean ± SEM to allow for easier visualization of line graphs. ( C ) Western blot analysis assessing nuclear localization of HIF-1α over 24 h LPS (20ng/ml) time course. FG-4592 (FG) was used as a positive control for HIF-1α protein expression. ( D ) Western blot analysis assessing nuclear localization of HIF-1α in  Hif1a +/+  and  Hif1 −/−  BMDMs at 4 h after LPS or FG verifying the loss of expression of HIF-1α in  Hif1 −/−  BMDMs at baseline and loss of induction of HIF-1α following LPS and FG. ( E ) BMDMs were treated overnight with FG-4592 (25µM) and then challenged with LPS (20ng/ml) in the presence or absence of Antimycin A (20nM) or Rotenone (20nM) for 6 h and secreted cytokines were measured via ELISA. Significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+  LPS only group with †,  p  < 0.05. *,  p  < 0.05 denotes significance in relation to  Hif1a +/+  LPS only group within respective genotype. #,  p  < 0.05 denotes significance in relation to  Hif1 −/−  LPS only group within respective genotype. ( F ) GC-MS metabolite analysis of BMDM LPS (20ng/ml) time course. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 3 replicates per experimental condition). Significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+ 
L40:Fig. 5 HIF-1α deletion impairs inflammatory capacity in BMDMs. ( A ,  B ) ECAR was measured following acute LPS injection (final concentration: 20 ng/ml) in BMDMs. ECAR data represented both as ( A ) raw values and ( B ) % change from baseline. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 4 separate wells per group). Error bars denote mean ± SEM to allow for easier visualization of line graphs. ( C ) Western blot analysis assessing nuclear localization of HIF-1α over 24 h LPS (20ng/ml) time course. FG-4592 (FG) was used as a positive control for HIF-1α protein expression. ( D ) Western blot analysis assessing nuclear localization of HIF-1α in  Hif1a +/+  and  Hif1 −/−  BMDMs at 4 h after LPS or FG verifying the loss of expression of HIF-1α in  Hif1 −/−  BMDMs at baseline and loss of induction of HIF-1α following LPS and FG. ( E ) BMDMs were treated overnight with FG-4592 (25µM) and then challenged with LPS (20ng/ml) in the presence or absence of Antimycin A (20nM) or Rotenone (20nM) for 6 h and secreted cytokines were measured via ELISA. Significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+  LPS only group with †,  p  < 0.05. *,  p  < 0.05 denotes significance in relation to  Hif1a +/+  LPS only group within respective genotype. #,  p  < 0.05 denotes significance in relation to  Hif1 −/−  LPS only group within respective genotype. ( F ) GC-MS metabolite analysis of BMDM LPS (20ng/ml) time course. Data represent at least 3 independent experiments ( n  = 3 replicates per experimental condition). Significance determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test. All error bars denote mean ± SD. Significance markings represented in relation to  Hif1a +/+ 
L42:We next examined the nuclear localization of HIF-1⍺ in macrophages following LPS treatment. Several reports have shown HIF-1α protein stabilization in the presence of LPS, but the exact time-course of stabilization remains unclear. We found that nuclear stabilization of HIF-1α in BMDMs occurs early in exposure, peaks around 4 h, and returns to near baseline levels by 24 h (Fig.  5 C). We confirmed the loss of HIF-1α protein in our  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs under LPS stimulation by verifying the lack of nuclear expression using western blot (Fig.  5 D) and immunofluorescence (Supplementary Fig. S8). Moreover, we have observed HIF-1α induction in TR-AMs under hypoxia or pseudohypoxia (prolyl hydroxylase inhibition with FG-4592), but we have not seen HIF-1α induction/stabilization in TR-AMs under inflammatory stimuli. Immunofluorescence and western blot confirmed these observations where HIF-1α was only observed in the presence of FG-4592 in TR-AMs, but not in the presence of LPS (Supplementary Fig. S9, S10). Poly (I:C), a potent TLR3 antagonist, also failed to induce HIF-1α in TR-AMs.
L43:We next sought to determine the effect of HIF-1α deletion on macrophage cytokine production. To do so, macrophages were preconditioned overnight with FG-4592 and then subsequently treated with LPS for 6 h in the presence or absence of ETC inhibitors (rotenone or antimycin A). This allowed us to assess both the general role of HIF-1⍺ in inflammation and the reliance of cells on glycolysis for inflammation under ETC inhibition. Compared to control BMDMs,  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs secreted less TNFα, IL-6, and IL-1β in response to LPS and exhibited reduced cytokine secretion in the presence of an ETC inhibitor (Fig.  5 E). FG-4592 appeared to increase KC and IL-1β secretion and decrease IL-6 secretion independently of HIF-1⍺ deletion in BMDMs. Moreover, FG-4592 failed to rescue rotenone-induced reduction in all measured cytokines and failed to reverse the antimycin A-induced reduction in IL-1β and KC secretion in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. By contrast, TR-AM cytokine secretion was unperturbed by HIF-1α deletion, and both  Hif1a −/−  and control TR-AMs were equally susceptible to ETC inhibitor-induced cytokine impairments. (Supplementary Fig. S11A). HIF-1α deletion only became a factor in cytokine secretion when TR-AMs were preconditioned with FG-4592 to induce glycolysis. In this case, the cytokine impairment from ETC inhibition was dramatically reversed in control TR-AMs, but not in  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs.
L44:Next, BMDMs and TR-AMs were treated with LPS for 6 and 24 h and the cellular extracts were analyzed via GC-MS. As expected,  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs had reduced lactate production in response to LPS (Fig.  5 F). While pyruvate levels remained unchanged, all other TCA cycle metabolites were significantly elevated in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs treated with LPS compared to controls. Most notably, succinate, citrate, and itaconate, which are known regulators of macrophage inflammation, were robustly elevated in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. HIF1α deletion in TR-AMs had negligible effects on LPS-induced metabolite levels (Supplementary Fig. S11B). Malate was the only TCA cyle metabolite that was elevated in  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs compared to controls. These data indicate that HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs leads to reduced cytokine production and elevated TCA cycle metabolite levels in response to LPS.
L45:HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs alters c-Myc transcriptional activity
L46:Thus far, we have demonstrated that HIF-1α is required for TR-AM glycolytic adaptation under prolyl hydroxylase inhibition, but otherwise HIF-1α is dispensable for TR-AM inflammatory processes under steady-state conditions. This is not the case in BMDMs where HIF-1α deletion broadly impacts metabolism and effector function. More specifically,  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs have reduced glycolytic and inflammatory capabilities but have enhanced mitochondrial function. By performing Gene Ontology-Biological Processes (GO-BP) enrichment analysis, we sought to identify regulatory pathways within our RNA-seq dataset that could explain the altered phenotype in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. Predictably, GO-BP analysis revealed suppression of biological processes related to hypoxia and oxygen responsiveness in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs (Fig.  6 A). HIF-1α deletion led to the activation of biological processes related to ribosome biogenesis, ribosomal RNA processing, and cell growth 24 . To determine what controls the transcriptional responses in the absence of HIF-1α, we used an unbiased approach using the DoRothEA mouse regulon transcription factor (TF) enrichment computation to estimate the activity of TFs in gene expression data, to understand how TFs drive gene expression changes in a given biological context 25 . Not surprisingly, the HIF-1α regulon genes had the most negative enrichment score in our  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs (Fig.  6 B). In contrast, Myc was the most positively enriched regulatory interaction with its targets in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs (Fig.  6 B).
L47:Fig. 6 HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs alters c-Myc transcriptional activity. ( A ) GO-BP enrichment analysis of gene sets comparing  Hif1a −/−  vs.  Hif1a +/+  BMDMs at baseline. ( B ) Transcription factor enrichment was computed using the DoRothEA R tool with significant differentially expressed genes (logFC ≤ 1,  p  ≤ 0.05) for  Hif1a −/−  vs.  Hif1a +/+  BMDMs comparisons at baseline. The color legend indicates TF activity. ( C ) Heatmap of significantly expressed c-Myc target genes and  (D)  Heatmap of shared target genes of c-Myc and HIF-1α comparing  Hif1a +/+  and  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs ± FG-4592 (25µM) for 16 h. All represented DEGs had gene expression abundances exceeding 200 counts. ( E-G ) BMDMs were electroporated with non-targeting (Ctrl) or  Myc  siRNA. Cells were allowed to rest for 48 h then subjected to western blot or seahorse analysis. (E) Western blot confirming successful knock down of  Myc . ( F ) Mitochondrial stress test to measure oxygen consumption rate (OCR) in BMDMs. Macrophages were treated sequentially with oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor), FCCP (uncoupler) and Rotenone/Antimycin A (complex I and III inhibitor, respectively). ( G ) Interleaved scatter plots quantifying mitochondrial respiration parameters. Data represents at least 3 experiments ( n  = 4 separate wells per group). Mitochondrial parameters were compared against  Hif1a +/+  Ctrl siRNA group and significance was determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test.
L48:Fig. 6 HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs alters c-Myc transcriptional activity. ( A ) GO-BP enrichment analysis of gene sets comparing  Hif1a −/−  vs.  Hif1a +/+  BMDMs at baseline. ( B ) Transcription factor enrichment was computed using the DoRothEA R tool with significant differentially expressed genes (logFC ≤ 1,  p  ≤ 0.05) for  Hif1a −/−  vs.  Hif1a +/+  BMDMs comparisons at baseline. The color legend indicates TF activity. ( C ) Heatmap of significantly expressed c-Myc target genes and  (D)  Heatmap of shared target genes of c-Myc and HIF-1α comparing  Hif1a +/+  and  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs ± FG-4592 (25µM) for 16 h. All represented DEGs had gene expression abundances exceeding 200 counts. ( E-G ) BMDMs were electroporated with non-targeting (Ctrl) or  Myc  siRNA. Cells were allowed to rest for 48 h then subjected to western blot or seahorse analysis. (E) Western blot confirming successful knock down of  Myc . ( F ) Mitochondrial stress test to measure oxygen consumption rate (OCR) in BMDMs. Macrophages were treated sequentially with oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor), FCCP (uncoupler) and Rotenone/Antimycin A (complex I and III inhibitor, respectively). ( G ) Interleaved scatter plots quantifying mitochondrial respiration parameters. Data represents at least 3 experiments ( n  = 4 separate wells per group). Mitochondrial parameters were compared against  Hif1a +/+  Ctrl siRNA group and significance was determined by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni’s post test.
L49:It is well-known that c-Myc often works diametrically opposed to HIF-1α and promotes cell proliferation and growth, which were the biological processes that were activated following HIF-1α deletion 26 . Thus, we queried c-Myc target genes to assess c-Myc transcriptional activity and found that  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs had higher gene expression for the majority of c-Myc targets (Fig.  6 C), with several of the genes being related to enhanced translational activity and cell proliferation ( Cdkn1a  and  Pcna ). Moreover, the only c-Myc targets that were downregulated in  Hif1a −/−  compared to controls were genes related to glycolysis, and these genes have been identified as shared c-Myc and HIF-1α targets (Fig.  6 D). This observation supports our data that HIF-1α, and not c-Myc, is the primary regulator of glycolysis in BMDMs. Thus, with the deletion of HIF-1α in BMDMs, it is possible that c-Myc shifts BMDMs toward a mitochondrial dominated metabolism. To assess these observations, we performed siRNA knockdown of  Myc  and found that  Myc  knockdown in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs reduced basal respiration and ATP production to levels comparable to control BMDMs (Fig.  6 E-G). This suggests that Myc is responsible for increased mitochondrial activity in the absence of HIF-1α.
L52:We have previously shown that TR-AMs have very low glycolytic activity under steady-state conditions and that glycolysis is dispensable for LPS-induced inflammation in these cells 9 . We then went on to show that TR-AMs could undergo glycolytic reprogramming at low oxygen concentrations, and that HIF-1α was likely driving this metabolic switch. Treating influenza-infected mice with prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor, FG-4592, promoted TR-AM survival and reduced lung injury 12 . Together, these previous findings demonstrate that HIF-1α induction in TR-AMs provides a mechanism for cell survival in an injured, hypoxic lung. In this study, we wanted to definitively identify HIF-1α as the driver of glycolytic adaptation in TR-AMs and to rule out HIF-1α as a mediator of TR-AM inflammation. Moreover, we wanted to provide new insight into the central role of HIF-1α in BMDM effector function. To do so, we generated HIF-1α knockout macrophages and found that HIF-1α is not required for steady-state TR-AM function, but it is only required for glycolytic adaptation under prolyl hydroxylase inhibition. RNA-seq analysis revealed  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs had only 10 DEGs compared to controls at steady-state, but 610 DEGs were observed between control and  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs treated with FG-4592. These data were in line with glycolysis stress test and glycolytic protein expression data, and ETC inhibitor-induced cytotoxicity experiments in which  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs failed to undergo glycolytic adaptation in the presence of FG-4592, and thus remained highly susceptible to ETC inhibitor-induced cell death. These data suggest that HIF-1α plays only a minor role in steady-state, terminally differentiated TR-AMs, which is in agreement with the findings that HIF-1α target genes are significantly downregulated in TR-AMs during postnatal maturation 19 .
L53:In contrast,  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs exhibited significant alterations at steady-state, presenting with 305 DEGs compared to controls, and the differences increased to 1022 DEGs when treated with FG-4592 ( Hif1a +l+  + FG-4592 vs.  Hif1a −/−  + FG-4592). These data are in line with previous work describing HIF-1α regulation of basal glycolytic metabolism in mouse peritoneal macrophages 15 .  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs also exhibited decreased glycolytic output and protein expression and became susceptible to ETC inhibition-induced cell death. FG-4592 treatment had no functional effect on glycolytic parameters in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. In control BMDMs, prolyl hydroxylase domain protein 2 (PHD2) and monocarboxylate transporter 4 (MCT4) protein expression increased with FG-4592 treatment, while lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) and hexokinase 2 (HK2) remained unchanged. As we have previously shown, control BMDMs are inherently glycolytic so upregulation of HK2 and LDHA with FG-4592 provides little metabolic advantage 9 , 12 . Increased PHD2 upregulation in BMDMs is likely a response to increased HIF-1α stabilization given that PHD2 is a key enzyme in marking HIF-1α for proteasomal degradation. Increased MCT4 may be necessary to export the increased lactate/acid produced by BMDMs treated with FG-4592. Overall, our findings demonstrate that  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs more closely resemble control TR-AMs with regards to glycolytic phenotype, and that HIF-1α is required for normal BMDM metabolic function.
L54:When assessing mitochondrial function in our  Hif1a −/−  macrophages, we found that TR-AMs had minimal alterations compared to controls.  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs only showed a slight elevation in spare mitochondrial capacity, but no change in basal respiration or ATP production. In contrast,  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs maintained higher basal oxygen consumption rates and ATP production, and OCR was less affected by FG-4592 treatment under mitochondrial stress test assessment. Interestingly, reciprocal ECAR measurements, while generally lower in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs, remained mostly unresponsive to mitochondrial inhibitors (rotenone and antimycin A). This suggests that  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs still maintain the ability to produce significant amounts of glycolysis-derived lactate under ETC inhibition, but this does not appear to be sufficient to overcome ETC inhibitor-induced cellular cytotoxicity. It may be that in the absence of HIF-1α other transcription factors aid in the basal maintenance of BMDM glycolysis, but that HIF-1α is required for a fully functional glycolytic phenotype 32 – 35 . This is not the case in untreated TR-AMs where their reciprocal ECAR measurements return to basal levels regardless of HIF-1α deletion suggesting that acidification measurements represent mitochondrial-derived CO 2 20 . Only when control  Hif1a + l+  TR-AMs are treated with FG-4592 does their reciprocal ECAR measurements become unresponsive to rotenone and antimycin A suggesting a dominant glycolytic phenotype.
L55:HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs resulted in higher TCA cycle metabolite levels, which correlated with increased gene and protein expression of ETC. In contrast, HIF-1α deletion had no impact on ETC protein or gene expression in TR-AMs. FG-4592 treatment led to downregulation of ETC genes in control TR-AMs and BMDMs, but this effect was lost when HIF-1α was deleted. This suggests that HIF-1α is responsible for the transcriptional downregulation of ETC genes under prolyl hydroxylase inhibition regardless of macrophage origin. Despite its effect on ETC gene expression, FG-4592 did not significantly affect ETC protein expression. The lack of a significant change in ETC protein expression despite a substantial reduction in gene expression after FG-4592 is likely due to insufficient mitochondria turnover during the course of our experiment for loss of protein expression to manifest. ETC protein expression may be more stable and therefore remain unperturbed by FG-4592 treatment in either cell type in the short-term. Based on these data, it is possible that loss of HIF-1α in BMDMs enhances mitochondrial capabilities as compensatory mechanism for deficiencies in glycolysis or that the presence of HIF-1α serves as negative regulator of mitochondrial function. As a result,  Hif1a −/−  BMDM metabolism resembles that of control TR-AMs in their glycolytic deficiency and enhanced mitochondrial metabolism.
L56:It is well-documented that HIF-1α is a key mediator of inflammation in macrophages of monocytic origin and that glycolytic flux increases immediately following exposure to proinflammatory immune stimulus 9 , 15 , 22 , 23 . Here, we show that HIF-1α is not responsible for the increased glycolytic flux under LPS stimulation in BMDMs.  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs had lower basal ECAR rates under LPS stimulus, but the magnitude of the response in ECAR after LPS was comparable to control BMDMs. Similarly, siRNA knockdown of  Hif1a  in BMDMs had no impact on the glycolytic ECAR flux in response to LPS. The siRNA knockdown of  Hif1a  also did not affect basal ECAR. This indicates that the glycolytic phenotypes of  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs and HIF-1α siRNA knockdown BMDMs are different.  Hif1a −/−  results in lower glycolytic capacity and protein expression. SiRNA knockdown greatly reduces HIF-1α expression but does not alter glycolytic phenotype 12 . The short-time course of a knockdown experiment was likely insufficient to allow the cells reprogram towards a more mitochondrial phenotype that is less dependent on glycolysis. Our data suggest that the increase of glycolytic flux in response to LPS is independent of HIF-1α. Although LPS induces glycolytic gene expression hours after treatment, it is likely that these alterations have little impact on the immediate alterations in glycolytic flux. It is thus more likely that LPS increases the activity of rate-limiting enzymes in the glycolytic pathway, such as 6-Phosphofructo-2-Kinase/Fructose-2,6-Biphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3) or pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), to enhance glycolytic flux 16 , 36 , 37 . We also observed broad decreases in cytokine production in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs in response to LPS. Others have shown that HIF-1α deletion results in deficiencies related to IL-1β production, and that HIF-1α activates NF-κB 16 , 18 , 38 , 39 . Our findings indicate that broad reductions in cytokine production are likely a result of glycolytic deficiency in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. Alternatively, in the absence of HIF-1α, BMDMs have elevated TCA cycle metabolite production in response to LPS, including the immunoregulatory metabolite itaconate, which may dampen the immune response 40 – 43 . Similarly, our data indicate that  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs have elevated citrate levels both at steady-state and following LPS treatment. Aside from its traditional role in the TCA cycle, citrate can be exported from the mitochondria to generate acetyl-CoA, which can be used for  de novo  fatty acid synthesis or epigenetic modifications 44 – 46 . Others have reported that anti-inflammatory macrophage function relies predominantly on mitochondrial metabolic pathways, which would be in agreement with the enhanced mitochondrial function and reduced proinflammatory cytokine production observed in our  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. 47
L57:We observed no changes in TR-AM inflammatory capabilities upon HIF-1α deletion. ETC inhibition greatly reduces cytokine production in TR-AMs, but these reductions can be overcome through pretreatment with hypoxia 12 . These findings are aligned with our data showing that unlike BMDMS, LPS treatment does not result in HIF-1α translocation to the nucleus in TR-AMs. Zhu and colleagues have shown that Poly (I: C) or influenza infection upregulate HIF-1α in TR-AMs, but we were not able to replicate these results 48 , 49 . We find that only hypoxia or pharmacological inhibition of prolyl hydroxylases induces HIF-1α in TR-AMs. One explanation for the observed differences is that Zhu and colleagues cultured TR-AMs in the presence of GM-CSF. GM-CSF is important to TR-AM function in vivo, but it induces proliferation of TR-AMs in culture 50 , 51 . Within the alveolus, epithelial-derived soluble mediators and direct interactions with epithelial cells function to prevent widespread TR-AM proliferation in the presence of physiological levels of GM-CSF 52 . Thus, it may be that previous observations of HIF-1α induction in TR-AMs are related to proliferation as opposed to inflammatory effector function.
L58:While HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs depressed proinflammatory effector function, RNA-seq Gene Ontology analysis showed upregulation in ribosomal biogenesis, rRNA metabolic processes, and noncoding RNA processing gene pathways in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. Others have recently observed upregulation of ribosomal biogenesis genes in tumor-associated macrophages, but the mechanism underlying this phenomenon remains unclear 53 . Increased expression of these gene pathways has been associated with increased proliferation and cell growth, and c-Myc has been identified as a critical regulator of these processes 24 . c-Myc and HIF-1α can work in concert or opposition to augment cellular metabolism, protein synthesis, cell growth, and proliferation 26 . While it may seem paradoxical,  Hif1a −/−  tumors grow faster and become more invasive in the presence of adequate oxygen, but under hypoxia, HIF-1α can displace c-Myc from DNA to induce cell cycle arrest 54 , 55 . In a similar vein, BMDMs restimulated with MCSF following a period of starvation upregulate c-Myc and shift toward a proliferative phenotype reliant on both glycolysis and mitochondrial metabolism. LPS treatment downregulates c-Myc, upregulates HIF-1α, and supports a glycolysis dominant metabolism in BMDMs 56 . This suggests that BMDMs proinflammatory effector function suppresses proliferation and shifts the cell from Myc-dependent to HIF-1α-dependent metabolism. We find the Myc regulon to be the most upregulated transcriptional network in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs compared to controls. This suggests that c-Myc serves a more dominant role in the absence of HIF-1α. This likely explains the upregulation of ETC protein expression and pathways involved in ribosomal biogenesis in our  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. Without HIF-1α, c-Myc can serve a larger role in shaping BMDM metabolism, which fundamentally changes how BMDMs respond to immune stimulus. Like Myc, the upregulation of other regulons, including  E2f1-4 ,  Lef1 ,  Gil2 , and  Tfdp1 , point towards a pro-growth phenotype in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. 57 – 59  DoRothEA analysis revealed the downregulation of  Foxo ,  Tcf12 ,  Maf , and  Onecut  in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. These regulons are associated with glucose homeostasis and cell cycle arrest 60 – 62 . Other downregulated regulons included  Rbpj ,  Tbx21 ,  Mbd2 ,  Spib  and  Crem , which have been identified as regulators of immune cell effector function 63 – 69 . Thus, with the deletion of HIF-1α in BMDMs, it is possible that Myc and other transcription factors shift BMDMs toward a primarily mitochondria-dominated metabolism that favors proliferation/cellular maintenance rather than a glycolytic phenotype that is poised for robust inflammatory effector function.
L59:In conclusion, HIF-1α is not required for TR-AM function under steady-state conditions or for inflammatory effector function, and only hypoxic conditions necessitate HIF-1α glycolytic reprogramming in TR-AMs to ensure optimal cellular fitness. HIF-1α functions much differently in BMDMs. HIF-1α is required for basal glycolytic metabolism and optimal proinflammatory effector function in BMDMs but is dispensable for LPS-induced glycolytic flux. Moreover, the loss of HIF-1α in BMDMs enhances mitochondrial function potentially in a c-Myc-dependent manner. These data describe a divergent role for HIF-1α in primary macrophage subsets and may be beneficial in developing therapies for ARDS where TR-AMs function to alleviate disease while infiltrating, nonresident macrophages exacerbate disease.
L61:We would like to point out that utilizing an inducible myeloid lineage cell specific HIF-1α deletion system to delete HIF-1α from cells is not without controversy. This system may not delete HIF-1α in 100% of cells upon tamoxifen exposure. Likewise,  Lyz2CreERT2  allele results in  Lyz2  heterozygosity in our cells. However, we show that lysozyme protein expression is largely maintained in our cells (Supplementary Fig. S12). Based on our metabolic findings and the existing literature, we believe that the observed phenotype in our knockout macrophages is a result of HIF-1α deletion. While BMDMs derived in CSF-1 may not perfectly recapitulate the phenotype of recruited macrophages, we have previously shown that BMDMs and recruited macrophages have similar metabolic phenotypes 9 , 12 . Furthermore, while hypoxia is a more physiological activator of HIF-1α, we chose to use a chemical prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor in attempt to induce HIF-1α while eliminating the off-target cellular effects associated with low oxygen levels particularly the direct effect of hypoxia on the mitochondria. Our group and others have shown that HIF-independent hypoxic responses have significant impacts on inflammation and metabolic pathways outside of canonical HIF-1α signaling 12 , 70 .
L66:We used well-accepted methods to isolate and culture both macrophage populations as we have previously described 9 , 12 , 42 , 73 . These methods yield TRAMs at a purity greater than 95%. BMDMs are assumed to be nearly 100% pure as they are bone marrow cells differentiated into macrophages over seven days with M-CSF. To isolate TR-AMs, we euthanized 6–8 week old male mice and performed standard bronchoalveolar lavage via intratracheal instillation of PBS with 0.5 mM EDTA. Following isolation, TR-AMs were counted, plated in RPMI 1640 (ThermoFisher, Cat# 11875119) supplemented with 10% FBS (Gemini, Cat# 100–106) and 1% penicillin-streptomycin (Gemini, Cat# 400 − 109), and allowed to adhere to tissue culture plates for one hour prior to experimentation. BMDMs were generated by isolating bone marrow cells from the femur and tibia bones of 6–8 week old  Hif1a −/−  and  Hif1a +/+  mice. Bone marrow cells were differentiated into BMDMs on petri dishes using 40 ng/mL recombinant M-CSF (BioLegend, Cat# 576406) and 1 µg/ml 4-Hydroxytamoxifen (Millipore Sigma, Cat# SML1666) in the same media formulation as TR-AMs. On day seven, after successful differentiation and gene deletion, BMDMs were replated and allowed to adhere to tissue culture plates for two hours prior to experimentation. After adherence, cells were washed and placed with fresh media under experimental conditions. FG-4592, a prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor, was used at a concentration of 25µM for HIF-1α stabilization. Lyophilized FG-4592 was dissolved in DMSO and diluted 1:2500 in media to achieve a final concentration of 25µM. DMSO diluted to 1:2500 in media served as untreated control groups. For inflammatory stimulation, LPS was used at a concentration of 20ng/ml.
L68:Glycolytic and mitochondrial respiration rates were measured using the XFe24 Extracellular Flux Analyzer (Agilent, Santa Clara, MA). BMDMs and TR-AMs were seeded at 4.0 × 10 4 /well onto Seahorse XF24 Cell Culture Microplates. Cells were equilibrated with XF Base media (Agilent, Cat# 103334-100) at 37 °C for 30 min in the absence of C02. The glycolytic rate was assessed using the manufacturers’ protocol for the Seahorse XF Glycolysis Stress Test followed by sequential injections with glucose (10mM), oligomycin (1.0µM), and 2-DG (100mM). Mitochondrial respiration rate was measured using the Seahorse XF Mito Stress Test according to the manufacturer’s protocol followed by sequential injections with oligomycin (1.0µM), FCCP (1.0µM for BMDMs and 4.0µM for TR-AMs), and rotenone/antimycin A (1.0µM). Assessment of real-time metabolic responses to LPS was performed using the protocol detailed in an application note provided by the Agilent 22 . In brief, following plating, cells were equilibrated in XF base media supplemented with 10 mM glucose, 2 mM L-glutamine, 1 mM sodium pyruvate (Sigma, Cat# 11360070) and 5 mM HEPES (Sigma, Cat# 15630080), pH 7.4 and incubated at 37 °C without CO 2  for 30 min prior to XF assay. Baseline metabolic rates were measured followed by direct injection of LPS (final concentration:20ng/ml). Bioenergetic rates were subsequently measured every three minutes for approximately 5 h in total.
L82:Macrophages were plated at 2.5 × 10 5  on 24-well plates for metabolite extraction. Following treatment, cells were washed with ice-cold blood bank saline (ThermoFisher, Cat# 23-293-184) and cells were scrapped into 600 µl of 80% methanol with 1 µg Norvaline/600µl. The metabolite samples were vortexed and centrifuged at 16,000 x  g  at 4 °C for 10 min to precipitate insoluble material. 400 µl of the liquid sample was then dried under nitrogen gas for approximately 2 h until no liquid remained. Samples then underwent derivatization, a process involving the addition of chemical modifiers to the metabolites for a more sensitive and accurate identification. First, samples were incubated in 16 µl Methoxamine (MOX) Reagent (ThermoFisher, Cat# TS45950) for 1 h at 37ºC. Samples were then incubated for 1 h at 60ºC following the addition of 20ul of tert-Butyldimethylsilyl (tBDMs) (Sigma, Cat# 394882). Derivatized samples were analyzed with an 8890 gas chromatograph with an HP-5MS column (Agilent) coupled with a 5977B Mass Selective Detector mass spectrometer (Agilent). Helium was used as the carrier gas at a flow rate of 1.2 ml/min. One microliter of each sample was injected in split mode (1:4 for BMDMs; 1:2 for TR-AMs) at 280 °C. After injection, the GC oven was held at 100 °C for 1 min and increased to 300 °C at 3.5 °C/min. The oven was then ramped to 320 °C at 20 °C/min and held for 5 minutes. The MS system was operated under electron impact ionization at 70 eV and the MS source was operated at 230 °C and quadrupole at 150 °C. The detector was used in scanning mode, and the scanned ion range was 100–650  m/z . Peak ion chromatograms for metabolites of interest were extracted at their specific  m/z  with Mass Hunter Quantitative Analysis software (Agilent Technologies). Ions used for quantification of metabolite levels were as follows: Pyruvate  m/z  174, Lactate  m/z  233, Citrate  m/z  591, Itaconate  m/z  303, Succinate  m/z  289, Fumarate  m/z  287, Malate  m/z  419, Aspartate  m/z  390. For each sample, total ion counts for all metabolites were normalized internally to norvaline. All samples were then normalized to controls (HIF1⍺ fl/fl ; no treatment) for quantification and statistical comparison.
L179:BMDM TR-AM
L183:**Figure S2. Stabilization of HIF-1α after FG-4592 in BMDMs and TR-AMs.** Wild-type ( _Hif1a_ _[+/+]_ ) TR-AMs and BMDMs
L228:**Figure S3. Table of DEGs in Figure 1. (A)** TR-AMs and **(B)** BMDMs were cultured overnight (16h) in the presence or
L235:(BMDMs). Samples were normalized internally to α-Tubulin and then subsequently normalized to _Hif1a_ _[+/+ ]_
L263:BMDMs during mitochondrial stress test to assess glycolytic capabilities in response to mitochondrial
L312:**Figure S7. Changes in ECAR after LPS.** BMDMs were electroporated with non-targeting (Ctrl) or _Hif1a_
L314:**(A)** Western blot confirming successful knock down of HIF-1α. **(B, C)** BMDM and **(D)** TR-AM ECAR were
L326:**Figure S8. Microscopy images of BMDMs related to figure 5.** BMDMs were treated with FG-4592
L328:BMDMs treated with FG-4592 served as negative controls.
L357:BMDM TR-AM
