L10:Mycobacterium avium  complex (MAC) is a non-tuberculous mycobacterium widely distributed in the environment. Even though MAC infection is increasing in older women and immunocompromised patients, to our knowledge there has been no comprehensive analysis of the MAC-infected host-cell transcriptome—and particularly of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). By using  in vitro- cultured primary mouse bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) and Cap analysis of gene expression, we analyzed the transcriptional and kinetic landscape of macrophage genes, with a focus on lncRNAs, during MAC infection. MAC infection of macrophages induced the expression of immune/inflammatory response genes and other genes similar to those involved in M1 macrophage activation, consistent with previous reports, although  Nos2  (M1 activation) and  Arg1  (M2 activation) had distinct expression profiles. We identified 31 upregulated and 30 downregulated lncRNA promoters corresponding respectively to 18 and 26 lncRNAs. Upregulated lncRNAs were clustered into two groups—early and late upregulated—predicted to be associated with immune activation and the immune response to infection, respectively. Furthermore, an Ingenuity Pathway Analysis revealed canonical pathways and upstream transcription regulators associated with differentially expressed lncRNAs. Several differentially expressed lncRNAs reported elsewhere underwent expressional changes upon M1 or M2 preactivation and subsequent MAC infection. Finally, we showed that expressional change of lncRNAs in MAC-infected BMDMs was mediated by toll-like receptor 2, although there may be other mechanisms that sense MAC infection. We identified differentially expressed lncRNAs in MAC-infected BMDMs, revealing diverse features that imply the distinct roles of these lncRNAs in MAC infection and macrophage polarization.
L12:non-tuberculous mycobacterium (NTM); bone-marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM); cap analysis of gene expression (CAGE); long non-coding RNA (lncRNA); M1 or M2 macrophage; Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA)
L22:Bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were generated from 8- to 12-week-old BALB/c male wild-type mice (CLEA Japan Inc., Tokyo, Japan) and Tlr2 knockout mice (Oriental Bioservice, Inc., Kyoto, Japan) as described previously, with some modifications ( 17 ). In brief, bone marrow cells were harvested from femurs. Cells were cultured in 90 × 15-mm vented petri dishes (Sansei Medical Co. Ltd., Kyoto, Japan) for 10 days at 37°C under 5% CO 2  in RPMI-1640 medium (Fujifilm Wako Pure Chemicals, Ltd., Osaka, Japan) containing 10% FBS (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Waltham, MA, USA), 40 ng/mL GM-CSF (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA), 20 ng/ml M-CSF (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA), and 50 μ/mL ampicillin (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) (the RPMI-1640 medium). After 10 days, BMDMs were harvested for subsequent experiments.
L23:Preparation of BMDMs infected with MAH strain and treated with Tlr2 ligand
L24:BMDMs were plated in the RPMI-1640 medium in six-well plates (BD Falcon, NJ, USA) at 2 × 10 6  cells per well and kept overnight at 37°C under 5% CO 2 . The BMDMs were then infected with log-phase MAH strain TH-135 and left for 4 h. The medium was replaced with fresh medium to remove extracellular mycobacteria. The cells were harvested at 0, 4, 12, or 24 h post-infection. To prepare BMDMs treated with Tlr2 ligand, 2 × 10 6  cells were incubated in the RPMI-1640 medium containing the Tlr2 ligand MALP-2 (macrophage-activating lipopeptide-2) (Enzo Life Sciences Inc., Farmingdale, NY, USA) for 0, 4, or 24 h. After the treatments, cells were harvested and lysed with 700 μL of QIAzol (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) and then stored at –80°C for RNA extraction. Total RNA was prepared by using an miRNeasy kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA). RNA quality was assessed with a Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, CA, USA) to ensure that the RNA integrity number was over 7.0 and that the ratio of absorbance at 260 nm to that at 280 nm, and that at 260 nm to that at 230 nm, exceeded 1.7. Quadruplicate samples were produced at each time point.
L26:Transcriptome analysis of MAC-infected BMDMs was performed by using CAGE. In brief, CAGE libraries were constructed by using the published nAnT-iCAGE (non-amplified non-tagging Illumina CAGE) protocol ( 16 ), followed by sequencing. The sequenced reads were processed by using the MOIRAI pipeline ( 18 ). After being filtered for ribosomal and low-quality reads, they were mapped to the mouse genome (mm9) by using BWA version 0.5.9 (r16) to calculate gene expression ( 19 ). Differential expression analysis was performed with edgeR (version 3.28.0) ( 20 ).
L31:Preparation of MAC-infected BMDMs under M1 and M2 macrophage preactivation
L32:BMDMs were plated in the RPMI-1640 medium in six-well plates (BD Falcon, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) at 2 × 10 6  cells per well and incubated overnight at 37°C under 5% CO 2 . This was followed by stimulation with IFNγ (100 units/mL, BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA, USA) or IL-4/IL-13 (100 units/mL each, BD Biosciences) for 24 h at 37°C under 5% CO 2 . Cells were infected with MAH and left for 4 h, then washed to remove extracellular mycobacteria. They were then incubated until 24 h post-infection. At 0 and 24 h post-infection, cells were harvested and the RNA extracted.
L33:Analysis of  Tlr2 -knocked-out BMDMs infected with MAC
L34:BMDMs were prepared from wild-type and Tlr2 knockout mice, as described above. BMDMs were infected with MAH (with a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 200) and harvested at 0 and 24 h. This was followed by RNA extraction. Expressional change of representative lncRNAs was measured by RT-qPCR.
L37:Macrophages are innate immune cells that are the primary targets of  Mycobacterium  infection. By using  in vitro- cultured primary mouse BMDMs, we designed and characterized the transcriptional and kinetic (0, 4, 12, 24 h) landscape of the macrophages during MAC infection. We decided to use an MOI of 200 for MAC infection after we analyzed the results of a preliminary experiment ( 
L65:We had previously described the gene expression profiles of BMDMs that are associated with IFNγ-stimulated M1 activation ( 24 ). Therefore, we examined the characteristics of the genes upregulated in MAC-infected macrophages and compared them with those upregulated in IFNγ-stimulated M1 macrophage activation ( 
L81: ). Similarly, in a previous study of Mtb-infected BMDMs ( 17 ), transient  Nos2  upregulation was predominantly observed, whereas  Arg1  was barely expressed ( 
L83: ). Because MAC is known to be sensed predominantly by Tlr2 ( 27 ), we stimulated BMDMs with MALP2, a Tlr2 agonist, and explored  Nos2  and  Arg1  expression. Interestingly, transient induction of  Nos2  expression was observed in MALP2-stimulated BMDMs ( 
L165:Tlr2 and Tlr4 play essential roles in signal transduction in bacterial infection. Tlr2/4 promotes the expression of inflammatory cytokine and chemokine genes via a myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (Myd88)-mediated signal transduction pathway, and Tlr4 promotes the expression of other inflammatory genes via an Myd88-independent signal transduction pathway ( 36 ). MAC is predominantly sensed by Tlr2 ( 27 ), although the existence of other sensing mechanisms has been suggested ( 37 ). To evaluate whether the expressional change of lncRNAs in MAC-infected macrophages is mediated by the Tlr2 signal transduction pathway, we performed an MAC infection experiment by using BMDMs derived from Tlr2 knockout mice. After confirming the absence of  Tlr2  expression in BMDMs derived from Tlr2 knockout mice ( 
L167: ), we subjected total RNA extracted from MAC-infected wild-type and Tlr2 knockout BMDMs to RT-qPCR analysis ( 
L169: ). Upregulation of the lncRNAs  U90926 ,  Mir155hg , and  Morrbid  was suppressed in BMDMs derived from  Tlr2  knockout mice.  AW112010  expression was not suppressed. The MAC-infection-mediated downregulation of  Snhg15  seen in wild-type BMDMs was suppressed in BMDMs derived from  Tlr2  knockout mice. On the other hand, most of dramatic upregulation of cytokine and chemokine genes, and  Nos2  and  Arg1 , was suppressed in BMDMs derived from Tlr2 knockout mice ( 
L173: ). Taken together, the results indicate that the expressional change of many lncRNAs in MAC-infected BMDMs is mediated by Tlr2, although there may be other mechanisms for sensing MAC infection.
L176:We performed a comprehensive transcriptome analysis of MAC-infected macrophages  in vitro . In addition to analyzing the expression of protein-coding immune/inflammatory response genes and  Nos2 / Arg1  genes, we successfully identified lncRNAs that were differentially expressed in a time-dependent manner after MAC infection. We also predicted the functions, canonical pathways, and upstream transcription regulators of the differentially expressed lncRNAs from those of protein-coding genes with similar expression profiles. Furthermore, we showed that representative lncRNAs underwent various expressional changes upon M1 or M2 preactivation and subsequent MAC infection. Finally, by using Tlr2 knockout BMDMs, we showed that the expressional change of part of those lncRNAs was mediated by Tlr2. The availability of high-resolution transcriptomic data on MAC-infected macrophages has been sparse. In particular, to our knowledge, the dynamics of lncRNAs in MAC-infected macrophages have not been studied before. Therefore, the data obtained here are very valuable for understanding the host response to MAC infection.
L177:MAC-infected BMDMs underwent the dramatic induction of inflammation genes such as cytokines and chemokines 4 h after infection, although  Arg1 , an M2 marker gene, continued to be upregulated 24 h after infection. This could have represented a rapid transition of macrophage activation from M1 to M2 during MAC infection. However, the inflammation genes characteristic of M1 activation also continued to be highly expressed 24 h after MAC infection. Furthermore, we did not detect upregulation of the M2 marker genes  Lgals3  and  Mrc1  in the 24 h after MAC infection. Therefore, we can say that MAC-infected BMDMs show M1-like activation for at least 24 h after infection. Importantly, transient induction of  Nos2 , an M1 marker gene, was not observed in MAC-infected macrophages, although  Nos2  expression was induced transiently and dominantly upon IFNγ-mediated M1 activation and Mtb infection. Furthermore, transient  Nos2  induction was observed in response to the Tlr2 agonist MALP2, although MAC is known to be sensed predominantly by Tlr2 ( 27 ). The results suggest that, besides the major Tlr2-mediated sensing pathway, there is another, unidentified, pathway or pathways by which MAC is sensed and that strongly inhibits transient  Nos2  induction.
L178:We found that an MOI of 200 was required for MAC infection to produce a sufficient immune/inflammation response to macrophages. This is a relatively high value compared with the MOI of only 5 for Mtb infection ( 17 ). The specific  Nos2/Arg1  profiles in MAC-infected BMDMs, together with the weak sensing properties of BMDMs for MAC infection, must be advantageous for MAC to survive in macrophages, as Nos2-mediated nitric oxide production—one of the strong microbicidal activities of macrophages—is low in MAC infection. A future exploration of the molecular mechanism by which  Nos2  transient induction is suppressed in MAC-infected BMDMs may provide hints for the treatment of MAC infection.
L180:To analyze signal transduction pathways for the expressional change of lncRNAs in MAC infection, we explored changes in their expression by using Tlr2 knockout BMDMs. The MAC infection-mediated upregulation of the lncRNAs  U90926 ,  Mir155hg , and  Morrbid  and downregulation of the lncRNAs  Snhg15  revealed the apparent suppression of expressional change ( 
L182: ), and this is consistent with previous reports that MAC is sensed predominantly by Tlr2 ( 27 ). However, lncRNAs with relatively mild expressional change in MAC infection ( AW112010 ,  AU020206 , and  AI662270 ) did not show obvious suppression of up- or downregulation in Tlr2 knockout BMDMs, although the responses to MALP2 ( 
L201: Arg1  in IFNγ-stimulated bone-marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) and  (E)  of  Nos2  and  (F) 
L202: Arg1  in Mtb-infected BMDMs. Average values of triplicate data are shown. The standard deviation is also shown in figures  (C–F) . The expression profiles were taken from the FANTOM5 database ( 40 ). The fold change of expression of  Nos2  and  Arg1  stimulated by the Tlr2 ligand MALP2 was calculated in comparison with no stimulation ( (G, H) , respectively) by RT-qPCR. Average results of duplicate experiments are shown. Expression profiles of two M2 marker genes,  Lgals3  and  Mrc1 , in  Mycobacterium avium  complex-infected macrophages are also shown  (I) . Average expression values of quadruplicate data were plotted, but the standard deviation omitted.
L205:Supplementary Figure 5 Expression of Tlr2 genes.  Tlr2  expression in wild-type (WT) and Tlr2 knockout (Tlr2KO) mouse bone-marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) was measured by RT-qPCR to confirm that Tlr2KO BMDMs did not express  Tlr2 .
L257:28 Redente EF Higgins DM Dwyer-Nield LD Orme IM Gonzalez-Juarrero M Malkinson AM .  Differential polarization of alveolar macrophages and bone marrow-derived monocytes following chemically and pathogen-induced chronic lung inflammation .  J Leukoc Biol . ( 2010 )  88 : 159–68 . doi:  10.1189/jlb.0609378
