L1:Bone Marrow Origin of Mammary Phagocytic Intraductal Macrophages (Foam Cells)
L9:Mammary intraductal macrophages (foam cells) in humans are the most commonly encountered cells in spontaneous breast nipple discharge, nipple aspirate fluid, and ductal lavage, yet their origin remains unproven. These cells, in both humans and murine model systems, increase in pregnancy, pseudopregnancy, and other conditions like proliferative fibrocystic disease and intraductal neoplasia, ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), where there is intraductal ectasia and obstruction. Previous immunocytochemical studies with macrophage (CD68, lysozyme), epithelial (cytokeratin, estrogen receptor), and myoepithelial (smooth muscle actin, CALLA, maspin) markers have indicated that intraductal foam cells are of macrophage lineage. These foam cells engage in phagocytosis of both endogenous and exogenous substances present within the ducts and are not proliferative. Although it has been suggested that foam cells could derive from tissue-specific and niche-specific precursors or circulating monocytes, to date no experimental nor clinical studies have provided direct proof of their origin. In this study, we provide evidence in both human and murine bone marrow transplant studies that intraductal foam cells are bone marrow-derived. We first studied a registry of sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant recipients who later in life had undergone breast biopsies for either proliferative fibrocystic disease, DCIS, or gynecomastia, and studied these biopsies by XY chromosome fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and informative microsatellite polymorphic markers. The intraductal foam cells were of bone marrow donor-origin. Then, in the experimental bone marrow transplant murine studies, donor marrow from female ROSA26 containing the lacZ reporter were transplanted into either irradiated female recipient transgenic mice carrying the highly penetrant  MMTV-pymT  or FVB/N background mice, where induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells derived from tail vein fibroblasts of FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J mice were subsequently injected into their mammary fat pads. In all of the transplanted recipient mice, the intraductal foam cells expressed the β-galactosidase (lacZ) reporter and also co-expressed markers of myeloid–macrophage lineage. The number of donor-derived intraductal foam cells increased in pseudopregnancy 5-fold and in intraductal neoplasia 10-fold. Although macrophages of different origins and lineages are undoubtedly present within both the murine and human breasts, those macrophages that qualify as phagocytic intraductal foam cells are bone marrow-derived.
L11:mammary intraductal macrophages; foam cells; transgenic mice; bone marrow transplantation; chromogenic markers; microsatellite polymorphisms; X,Y chromosome FISH
L21:In the five cases where breast biopsies were available in patients who had received a sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant years earlier, X,Y chromosomal FISH studies revealed that the intraductal foam cells were of donor origin ( Figure 3 A–D).
L23:Inspection of the electropherograms revealed allelic variability, which distinguished donor from recipient and confirmed the bone marrow origin of the intraductal foam cells ( Figure 4 A,B).
L31:Both FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J and FVB/N mice whose cleared mammary fat pads were injected with iPS cells containing MMTV- PyVT , all of whom were recipients of a tagged donor bone marrow transplant ( Figure 6 A–C), exhibited intraductal foam cells of donor origin ( Figure 7 A–D). We then strengthened our conclusions with regard to the origin and nature of the murine intraductal foam cells by comparing the number of CD68 +  intraductal foam cells with and without BM markers. We conducted dual labeling of the intraductal foam cells that expressed the β-galactosidase (LacZ) +  tag with an alkaline phosphatase-conjugated secondary goat antibody to both rabbit anti-mouse CD68 and rabbit anti-mouse  CD11b , both detected by 1-Step™ NBT/BCIP Substrate Solution, giving a red color. Dual blue/red signals with either antibody were observed within the same intraductal foam cells, suggesting that in these murine studies, virtually 100% of the intraductal foam cells were of both bone marrow donor-origin and myeloid–macrophage lineage ( Figure 7 D). No intraductal foam cells were of local origin. Although we did note CD68 +  cells that were β-galactosidase (LacZ) −  and CD68 -  cells that were β-galactosidase (LacZ) + , they were located within the mammary stroma and not within the intraductal lumens. Undoubtedly, they represented, respectively, resident macrophages of local origin and non-macrophages, e.g., neutrophils and lymphocytes of bone marrow origin. We did of course observe β-galactosidase (LacZ) +  cells within mammary stroma ( Figure 7 B), which could represent bone marrow-derived macrophages in transit to become intraductal foam cells.
L33:Mammary intraductal macrophages (foam cells) in humans are the most commonly encountered cells in spontaneous nipple discharge, nipple aspirate fluid, and ductal lavage, yet their precise origin and significance remain a mystery [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 ]. These cells are thought to increase in both numbers and density in human pregnancy and other conditions of ductal ectasia and/or obstruction [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 ]. Our findings in this study confirm these observations. Although it has been suggested that intraductal foam cells in humans could originate from either tissue-specific embryonic or bone marrow-derived precursors, to date, no clinical study has provided direct proof of their origin [ 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 ]. To our knowledge, ours is the first study that provides direct proof in studies obtained from a human bone marrow transplant registry that human intraductal foam cells are bone marrow-derived.
L34:Although there have been recent murine studies that have used flow cytometry, single cell RNA seq, advanced three-dimensional intravital imaging and transgenic reporter mice crosses that have supported the conclusion that lactation-induced macrophages (liMacs) are derived from circulating monocytes [ 7 , 8 , 9 ], ours is the first study that uses tagged donor marrow murine transplantation to show that murine intraductal foam cells are also indeed bone marrow-derived.
L35:In both our human and murine studies [ 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 ], we examined situations where the bone marrow transplant occurred well before the onset of puberty, pseudopregnancy, mammary morphogenesis and oncogenesis. Clearly during mammary gland development, accompanying the development of the ductal–lobular system in all these situations, the pool of mammary macrophages would be expected to expand and we wanted to observe the ultimate source of this expansion, especially with respect to intraductal foam cells.
L39:Much more is known about murine mammary macrophages, in general, and in murine intraductal foam cells in particular, than is known about their human counterparts. This is largely due to the aforementioned highly sophisticated murine studies, which have more precisely defined macrophage subsets in exquisite detail [ 7 , 8 , 9 ]. Mammary gland macrophages are heterogeneous in origin and phenotype and carry out many organ-specific functions [ 7 ]. Many tissue-resident macrophage populations are thought to be derived from embryonic precursors and self-renew locally [ 11 ], while others are continuously replenished by circulating monocytes. Macrophage residency, density, and proliferation can be partially independent or dependent on bone marrow contribution but their dependency on bone marrow contribution is reflective of their location within the mammary gland and specifically their function. In virgin mammary glands, stromal macrophage populations predominate, but in the lactating mammary gland, ductal macrophages dominate and form a continuous layer between myoepithelial and epithelial luminal cells [ 8 ]. These ductal macrophages differ from stromal macrophages by flow cytometric and single-cell RNA-seq studies [ 9 ] and are likely derived from circulating monocytes.
L40:Murine mammary macrophages specifically associated with lactation (liMacs) have recently been profiled [ 7 ]. liMacs were found predominantly within ductal lumens or in juxtaposition to the luminal surface of the basal layer. Using transgenic reporter mice crosses, which allowed the fate-mapping of monocytes and granulocytes, these liMacs were shown to arise from circulating monocytes and not tissue-resident macrophages [ 7 ]. liMacs then migrated into ductal lumens and lactational secretions in contrast to the behavior of typical tissue-resident macrophages, which usually did not migrate. Using additional transgenic reporter mice crosses and single-cell RNA-seq, it was shown that liMacs not only express genes associated with migration, lipid metabolism, and phagocytosis, but can self-proliferate and expand when monocyte egress from the bone marrow was blocked [ 7 ]. Therefore, these recent studies also support our findings in both mice and humans that intraductal foam cells are indeed bone marrow-derived, engage in phagocytosis largely of endogenous lipid substances, and migrate into ductal lumens. The only difference in our findings was that we observed that intraductal foam cells lack proliferative activity. However, since the liMacs with proliferative activity comprised only a small subset of overall liMacs [ 7 ], the interductal and periductal macrophages before they migrate intraductally could well be proliferative and then lose this ability to proliferate.
L42:By single-cell RNA-seq, ductal macrophages and liMacs also strongly resemble mammary tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), which likely also arise from circulating monocytes and not tissue-resident macrophages. Just as it has been noted that intraductal foam cells associated with lactation may be immunosuppressive, intraductal foam cells associated with human DCIS [ 10 ] or ducts distended with carcinoma in FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J transgenics [ 8 ] may also be immunosuppressive. These intraductal foam cells, therefore, are TAMS in the truest sense of the word and bone marrow-derived.
L43:Our study focuses on intraductal macrophages (foam cells), which lie within lactating ducts and are juxtaposed to ductal neoplastic processes. This is why we initially raised their putative role in immunosuppression and not wound healing per se. But certainly, the macrophages that end up as intraductal foam cells but begin as circulating bone marrow-derived monocytes first have had to enter the stromal compartment of the breast. At that stage they may, in fact, show a strikingly different phenotype including both proliferative and wound-healing potential responsible for both tissue repair and remodeling.
L53:A total of 5 cases from the original breast ductoscopy cohort (UCLA) and 25 cases each of normal breast tissues (reduction mammoplasties), non-proliferative fibrocystic disease containing ductal ectasia, proliferative fibrocystic disease, ductal carcinoma in situ, and/or invasive cancer (100 cases in total) (Ohio State and Meharry Medical College) were selected for study. After searching our transplant database both at the Ohio State University College of Medicine and the neighboring Children’s Hospital that contained records of individuals who had received a sex-mismatched bone marrow transplant for non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma or leukemia, who survived and years later developed breast disease (ductal ectasia, proliferative fibrocystic disease, DCIS or invasive cancer or gynecomastia), we found a total of 5 cases.
L63:To further confirm the donor bone marrow origin of the intraductal macrophages in the aforementioned cases, we conducted DNA fingerprinting studies [ 23 , 24 ]. We initially carried out laser capture microdissection of the respective areas within the paraffin blocks to ensure that the given histological sampling was reasonably “pure”. DNA fingerprinting with a series of highly informative microsatellite markers was then used to “DNA fingerprint” the initial donor (bone marrow), the laser-captured intraductal foam cells, and the adjacent breast tissues (host). In these studies, we examined a number of different polymorphic loci, which both had an inherent low rate of loss of heterozygosity (%LOH) but also a high informative rate (%Inf) ( Table 1 ).
L67:All animals used in the study were purchased by grants and owned by the university. Therefore, the animals used were not privately owned. All animal studies including the bone marrow transplant studies were approved by the Ohio State University’s Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), protocols 2004A0179 and 2007A0218 (dates of approval 10/15/04 and 02/20/07) and by the Ohio State University’s Institutional Biosafety Committee, protocol 2007R0057, (date of approval 02/20/07). The mice were treated in compliance with the NIH and internal IACUC guidelines. Continued animal studies were approved by the University of Nevada’s School of Medicine and the Nevada Cancer Institute’s IACUC, protocols 00439 and 00440 (date of approval 09/18/09). Final animal studies were conducted under an Interinstitutional Agreement between the California University of Science and Medicine and Anticancer, Inc. using the latter’s IACUC protocol D16-00503 and OLAW A3873-01 (date of approval 03/28/20).
L69:A total of 40 each of 4-week-old female FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J and FVB/N mice were obtained (The Jackson Laboratory Biomedical Research Institute, Bar Harbor, ME, USA). Previously iPS cells containing MMTV- PyVT  were created from tail vein fibroblasts of the FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J and found, when injected into a cleared mammary fat pad of FVB/N mice, to form a mammary gland containing both intraductal as well as invasive ductal carcinoma [ 25 , 26 ]. Ten ROSA26 mice, which constitutively express β-galactosidase (LacZ) served as bone marrow donors [ 27 ].
L70:4.2.3. Bone Marrow Transplantation Studies
L71:Bone marrow of ROSA 26 donor mice was harvested by femoral flushing, placed in culture to remove the non-adherent cells, and transplanted into lethally irradiated recipient mice (irradiated with 10 Gy at 4–8 weeks of age). Recipient mice included both the FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J (10 mice) and FVB/N (20 mice). Recipient mice received 1–5 × 10 6  genetically marked cells through the tail vein according to standard protocols [ 28 , 29 ]. Transplanted mice were monitored over the next 2–3 weeks and evidence of engraftment was determined by examining peripheral blood or bone marrow for colorimetric detection of the β-galactosidase (LacZ) marker. Mice designated with successful bone marrow engraftment showed at least 50% donor marrow engraftment after 60 days.
L74:In the two previously described sets of experiments involving the transfer of tagged bone marrow, one set was transplanted into 10 FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J transgenic mice, which spontaneously developed mammary carcinomas at 60–90 days, and a second set transplanted into 10 FVB/N mice whose cleared mammary fat pads [ 30 ] were then subsequently injected with iPS cells derived from tail vein fibroblasts of FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J mice. In the latter set, we did not inject the iPS cells until 6 weeks after the bone marrow transplant. In both sets of experiments, we harvested the tumors at two time points, when the tumors initially emerged and after they had reached 2 cm in size. Both time points were well beyond the six week time period of successful reconstituted bone marrow transfer. Selected mice were then euthanized with CO 2  inhalational anesthesia.
L85:As has been stated, our study focuses on the intraductal foam cell and the evidence supporting its exclusive myeloid–macrophage lineage and bone marrow origin. Since the phagocytic appearance of the foam cell is not apparent until it enters its intraductal location, other phenotypic properties of this cell, e.g., immunosuppression, may only be expressed when it reaches its intraductal location. Alternatively, the subset of bone marrow-derived myeloid–macrophage lineage cells destined to become intraductal foam cells, which also participate as TAMs in the setting of DCIS may have acquired its phenotypic properties at an earlier stage ranging from its bone marrow origin, circulating monocyte pool, or entrance into the mammary stroma. All these possibilities merit investigation in future studies.
L88:Figure 3 X,Y chromosomal FISH studies on human transplant cases. FISH for the presence or absence of an X or Y chromosome (CEP X SpectrumGreen/CEP Y SpectrumOrange) in sections of intraductal foam cells from a male who had received a female bone marrow donor ( A , B ) and a female who had received a male bone marrow donor ( C , D ) identified the Y chromosome as fluorescing bright orange and the X chromosome as fluorescing green ( B , D ). In each case the intraductal foam cells were of bone marrow donor-origin. Scale bars are provided.
L89:Figure 4 Microsatellite donor/recipient heterozygosity. GeneScan electropherograms of microsatellite PCR (D6S1027) ( A ) and D14S588 ( B ), respectively, of two individual cases distinguish donor from recipient and confirm the donor bone marrow origin of the intraductal foam cells. The abscissas of each panel show the allele sizes in bp and the ordinates show the allele peak heights in arbitrary fluorescence units.
L91:Figure 6 Tagging donor bone marrow with LacZ. Bone marrow of ROSA 26 donor mice, harvested by femoral flushing ( A ) and marked with the β-galactosidase (LacZ) reporter ( B ), was transplanted into recipient mice and successful engraftment was marked by at least 50% engraftment when sections of murine bone marrow were analyzed 60 days after bone marrow transplant ( C ). Gross photographs and photomicrographs are depicted from single representative cases, but 8/10 mice showed successful bone marrow engraftment. Scale bars are provided.
L92:Figure 7 Tagged intraductal foam cells in recipient mice. Recipient FVB/N-Tg(MMTV- PyVT )634Mul/J and FVB/N injected with iPS cells containing MMTV- PyVT  exhibited intraductal carcinoma ( A ) and both stromal macrophages ( B ) and intraductal foam cells ( C ) tagged with the β-galactosidase (LacZ) reporter. Mice made pseudo-pregnant also expressed tagged foam cells in derived nipple fluid ( D ). Dual labeling of these tagged intraductal foam cells with an alkaline phosphatase-conjugated secondary goat antibody to rabbit anti-mouse CD68 ( D , left lower inset) and rabbit anti-mouse CD11b ( D , right upper inset) revealed dual blue/red signals within all of the intraductal foam cells, suggesting that virtually 100% of the intraductal cells were of both macrophage–monocyte origin and bone marrow donor-origin and none were of local origin. Scale bars are provided.
L285: Improved expression in hematopoietic and lymphoid cells in mice after transplantation of bone marrow transduced with a modified retroviral vector Blood 1999 94 3349 3357 10.1182/blood.V94.10.3349.422k05_3349_3357 10552944
L299: Beta-galactosidase staining on bone marrow. The osteoclast pitfall Histol. Histopathol. 2007 22 971 976 10.14670/HH-22.971 17523074
