L1:In Vitro Bone Marrow–Derived Dendritic Cells (BMDC) Generation for Antigen Presentation Assay
L5:Dendritic cells (DC) are sentinel cells of the immune system that process and present antigens to activate T cells, thus serving to bridge the innate and adaptive immune systems. DCs are particularly efficient at cross-presentation whereby exogenously acquired antigens are processed and presented in context with MHCI molecules to activate CD8 +  T cells. Assaying antigen presentation by DCs is a critical parameter in assessing immune functionality. However, the low abundance of bona fide DCs within the lymphoid compartments limits the utility of such assays. An alternative approach employing the culturing of bone marrow cells in the presence of factors needed for DC lineage commitment can result in the differentiation of bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs). This protocol details the process of in vitro generation of BMDCs and demonstrates their subsequent utility in antigen presentation assays. The protocol described can be adapted to various conditions and antigens.
L14:Generating bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs) for in vitro antigen presentation assays.  The bone marrow precursors are cultured in the presence of interleukin 4 (IL-4) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) to generate DCs. BMDCs are then sorted as double-positive cells based on CD11b and CD11c staining. The sorted BMDCs are then pulsed with SIINFEKL peptide or ovalbumin protein and subsequently co-incubated with carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE)-labeled OT-I T-cell receptor (TCR) transgenic cells with SIINFEKL-H-2K b  reactivity. The antigen presentation potential of the generated BMDCs is assayed by quantifying the frequencies of CFSE-diluting OT1 cells, with each peak representing a group of cells having undergone a different number of divisions.
L16:An important breakthrough in immunology research was the development of in vitro functionality assays. While developing the mixed lymphocyte reaction assay, Mishell and Dutton made the unexpected finding that the lymphocytes by themselves were unable to produce an immune response and required glass-adhering accessory antigen-presenting cells (APCs) [1]. Subsequently, the work of Steinman and Cohn [2,3] established morphologically distinct accessory cell types, which they named dendritic cells (from the Greek  dendreon  meaning tree, owing to their tree-like projections). In 1978, Steinman and Nussenzweig developed the first antigen-presentation assay and showed that DCs present antigens to T cells to initiate immunity [4]. However, due to the extremely laborious procedure of purifying these cells, studies of DCs remained restricted to the laboratory of Steinman and his colleagues. Dendritic cell biology witnessed significant advances in the 1990s when Sallusto and Lanzavecchia developed an assay to differentiate DCs from blood monocytes by culturing them in the presence of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and interleukin (IL)-4 [5].
L18:Here, we describe the generation of DCs from bone marrow precursors and subsequent analysis aimed at measuring their ability to prime antigen-specific CD8 +  T cells by performing in vitro antigen presentation assays. To this end, we use the model CD8 +  T-cell epitope, SIINFEKL (derived from the chicken egg ovalbumin, Ova 257-264 ), as well as the complete ovalbumin protein to pulse bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs). The pulsed BMDCs were then co-incubated with OT1 cells (transgenic T cells having TCRs specific for the SIINFEKL epitope). The proliferation of the OT1 cells in response to stimulation with the pulsed BMDCs is then assayed using CFSE dilution. As such, the protocol described here provides a primer for studies aimed at assessing DC functionality in diverse conditions of health, disease, and aging and can be adapted to different epitopes and T-cell pairs.
L31:8. Murine GM-CSF (Thermo Fisher Scientific, PeproTech, catalog number: 315-03-20UG, product format: 5 ng/mL in SFRPMI)
L110:A. Bone marrow isolation and processing of cells
L114:Figure 1. Representative images of each step involved in bone marrow isolation. (A) Mouse laid down in a supine position to cut the skin around the hip area. (B) Removal of skin around the hind legs. (C) Tibia and femur removed by cutting into the pelvis. (D) The femur and tibia are clearly visible upon the removal of muscles and fibrous tissues. (E) Flushing of the bones to obtain the bone marrow cells. (F) White bones clearly indicate proper flushing to remove the bone marrow. This can be compared with the red-colored bones in panel D.
L116:4. Remove the tibia and femur by cutting into the pelvis region ( Figure 1C ).
L121:8. Cut both ends at the epiphysis of the femur and tibia with a sharp scissor.
L122:9. Hold the cut bones above the plate using forceps and flush out the bone marrows with cold FACS buffer in the culture plate using a 2 mL 25-gauge syringe until the bones appear white in color. This indicates complete flushing of the cellular contents from the bone marrow cavity ( Figure 1E  and F).
L130:1. To a 100 mm cell culture plate, add approximately 10–15 × 10 6  bone marrow cells in 15 mL of RPMI supplemented with 5 ng/mL of GM-CSF and IL4.
L131:Note: The protocol can be adapted according to the requirements of the experiment. A single healthy mouse can yield 6–7 × 10 7  bone marrow cells from femur and tibia bones. However, if the number of cells has to be changed, then it is suggested that the concentration of the cytokines also be optimized.
L133:3. After 2 days, replace 5 mL of fresh RPMI supplemented with 5 ng/mL of GM-CSF and IL4 with the equivalent volumes of the existing culture medium in each plate.
L142:Figure 2. Bone marrow cells upon culture in medium devoid of (left panel) or supplemented with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) + interleukin (IL) 4 (right panel) to differentiate into bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs). The differentiation of BMDCs is confirmed by the presence of cells with dendritic projections within the medium supplemented with GM-CSF and IL4.
L230:Figure 6. In vitro antigen presentation assay. Bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs) were generated and pulsed with the indicated doses of SIINFEKL peptide or ovalbumin protein for 45 min and 2 h, respectively. BMDCs were then sorted and co-incubated with CFSE-labeled OT-I cells for 72 h, following which CFSE dilution by the OT-I cells was checked. (A) Representative histogram plots for analysis of CFSE dilution by OT-I cells co-incubated with BMDCs pulsed with the indicated doses of ovalbumin protein. Un-pulsed BMDCs (UP) were taken as a control to gate the undivided cells. (B) Line plot summarizing the frequency of cells having undergone the indicated number of divisions. (C) Representative histogram plots for analysis of CFSE dilution by OT-I cells co-incubated with BMDCs pulsed with the indicated doses of SIINFEKL peptide. (D) Line plot summarizing the frequency of cells having undergone the indicated number of divisions. Each line and datapoint represent an individual technical replicate (n = 3), with each color representing a different concentration.
L237:2. The use of GM-CSF and IL-4 for the generation of BMDCs has been described in this protocol. The type and quality of the DCs vary according to the concentration of cytokines and the duration of incubation. Accordingly, variability in the differentiating populations between experiments is expected. Therefore, we strongly suggest that the sorting of the generated BMDCs should be done before setting up co-culture assays to ensure that only CD11b + CD11c +  cells are present within the population.
