L1:A presumed mouse parvovirus with overlooked high toxicity for human primitive CD34 +  hematopoietic precursors  in vitro  and in bone marrow-humanized mice
L18:Assigning the genuine natural viral host range may be uncertain without testing the susceptibility of primary cells.  Parvoviridae,  a family of ssDNA icosahedral viruses, harbors several members infecting humans, but only parvovirus B19 of the  Erythroparvovirus  genus shows tropism for human hematopoietic progenitors. Here, we evaluate the tropism of the MVMi and MVMp parvoviruses for humans, which are assumed to be mouse pathogens. We show that MVMp is remarkably cytotoxic for human primitive CD34+ and committed erythroid and myeloid hematopoietic progenitors. Infection of basal and bone marrow-humanized immunodeficient mice shows the emergence of viral strain-specific genetic changes at the capsid domain binding sialic-acid receptors, denoting adaptation to the respective host hematopoiesis. Although a large epidemiological survey failed to identify circulating MVMp sequences or antibodies in human populations, its high toxicity to human hematopoietic progenitors of different lineages and primitiveness and rapid evolutionary capacity demand in-depth characterization of its potential pathogenicity for humans.
L19:Two strains of the minute virus of mice (MVM) parvovirus (of the species  Protoparvovirus rodent1 ), named i (immunosuppressive) and p (prototype), show disparate tropism and pathogenicity in mice. Unlike the virulent MVMi, the MVMp is attenuated and infection-restricted in primary mouse hematopoietic cells; however, it does infect human transformed, established, and stem cells. We thus seek here a putative MVMp natural tropism to humans compared to MVMi. Infectious purified MVMp virions suppress  in vitro  the clonogenic potential of human committed (erythroid and myeloid) and primitive CD34 +  progenitors, regardless of the cell source (umbilical cord blood, G-CSF mobilized peripheral blood, or bone marrow), in a multiplicity of infection-dependent manner. Furthermore, primitive CD34 +  progenitors in culture are permissive to the MVMp cytotoxic NS-1 protein expression and the synthesis of viral genome replicative intermediates. None of these features is shared by MVMi. In consistency, MVMp suppresses the pool of CD34+ progenitors in bone-marrow-humanized immunodeficient NSG mice and severely compromises their survival, whereas in basal NSG mice, it replicates to several thousand-fold lower levels than MVMi and undergoes evolution to variants carrying genetic changes at the capsid tropism determinant binding sialic acid types. We suggest that MVMp may have originated from a MVMi-like mouse parvovirus upon adaptation to human sialic acid receptors in immunocompromised individuals. Extensive serological and genetic screens failed to demonstrate circulating MVMp in Eurasian and African human populations, including hematopoietic patients. Nevertheless, the high MVMp cytotoxicity to human primitive hematopoietic progenitors and rapid evolvability deserve further epidemiological studies.
L24:In humans, several members of the  Parvoviridae  belonging to distinct genera may infect with diverse prevalence and are associated with a spectrum of diseases that still needs to be established ( 13 – 16 ). Parvovirus B19 (B19V) of the genus  Erythroparvovirus  is so far the only parvovirus associated with severe human hematopoietic dysfunctions ( 14 ,  17 ). In children, B19V is the etiological agent of the “erythema infectiosum” or fifth viral disease, potentially causing several congenital abnormalities and hydrops fetalis ( 18 ). In adults, patients suffering from hemoglobinopathies or immunosuppression are especially susceptible to B19V infection, causing red cell aplasia and aplastic anemia ( 19 ,  20 ). The B19V circulates worldwide; it replicates in the bone marrow (BM), resulting in extremely elevated levels of viremia and systemic infection associated with multiple clinical manifestations ( 21 ), and its genome or pieces can persist lifelong in several human tissues as bone marrow and tonsillar B cells ( 22 – 27 ).  In vitro , B19V suppresses the colony-forming capacity of the human erythropoietic precursors (erythroid colony-forming unit [CFU-E] and erythroid burst-forming unit [BFU-E]) ( 28 ) but not that of the myeloid precursors (granulo-macrophage colony-forming unit [CFU-GM]), and primitive progenitors fail to support virus replication ( 29 ). The virus shows marked tropism for progenitors of the erythroid lineage, the susceptibility of which increases with precise differentiation stages ( 30 ). These requirements may partly explain the successful though restricted multiplication of B19 in human bone marrow cultures ( 31 ,  32 ), despite the high levels of viremia frequently observed in natural infections ( 21 ).
L25:In mice, two strains of minute virus of mice (MVM), belonging to the recently re-named  Protoparvovirus rodent1  species ( 1 ), have served as major classical molecular models for the  Parvoviridae , the prototype (p) and the immunosuppressive (i), which show distinct tropism and pathogenicity in mice despite their high genetic similarity ( 33 ,  34 ). MVMi was isolated from a culture of the mouse EL-4 lymphoma ( 35 ). It can inhibit T cell-mediated functions ( 36 ) and cytotoxically infect committed CFU-GM, BFU-E, megakaryocyte progenitors (CFU-MK), and primitive (CFU-S) mouse clonogenic hematopoietic precursors ( 37 ,  38 ), as well as long-term repopulating mouse hematopoietic stem cells ( 39 ). In newborn mice, MVMi impairs brain developing areas ( 40 ), mediates a mild reduction of hematopoietic committed precursors ( 41 ), as well as an involution of hepatic erythropoietic foci ( 42 ). In adult severe immunodeficient mice (scid), MVMi causes a persistent bone marrow infection, leading to dysregulated erythropoiesis and lethal leukopenia ( 43 ), which, when subjected to passive antibody-mediated therapies, unraveled a powerful virus evolution capacity ( 44 ,  45 ). These reports clearly assign MVMi as a virulent mouse pathogen. Other members of this group of viruses, which have become more prevalent in animal facilities recently, are the MVMc and MVMm strains ( 46 ), the latter being the only strain isolated directly from mice and exhibiting a hematopoietic pathogenicity similar to that of MVMi ( 47 ).
L27:In the present investigation, we undertook a careful examination of a potential MVMp natural tropism to humans, in comparison with MVMi, by exploring its capacity to directly infect primary human hematopoietic progenitors  in vitro,  as well as its pathogenicity and evolutionary trend in bone marrow-humanized immunodeficient mice. The study was accompanied by a large epidemiological survey on the MVMp presence in human populations of different continents, involving serological and genetic screenings of multiple types of hematopoietic and immunocompromised patients. Our findings, supporting MVMp’s potential pathogenicity for humans and an evolutionary origin from a mouse MVMi-like parvovirus, are discussed.
L34:Fig 2 Inhibition of the colony-forming ability of human committed progenitors by MVMp requires infectious virus and is independent of the source of hematopoietic cells. ( A ) Suppression of myeloid progenitor susceptibility to MVMp by previous virus neutralization with antibody. Shown is the colony-forming capacity of CFU-GM progenitors from human MNCs after the different treatments indicated in the footnote of the graphic. Data represent the mean ± S.D. of three independent experiments. ( B ) Susceptibility of the colony-forming capacity of CFU-GM (left panel) and BFU-E (right panel) progenitors in MNCs from different sources (umbilical cord blood [UCB], G-CSF mobilized peripheral blood [MPB], and bone marrow) to the MVMp infection at the indicated MOI, scored at 14 dpi. Statistical significance in respect to the mock-infected culture: **  P  value < 0.01; ns, not significant.
L35:To enhance the biological significance of this set of experiments, we addressed whether the observed susceptibility of the human primitive precursors to the direct interaction with MVMp was a unique characteristic of the cord blood cells because of their primitiveness, or it may be shared with hematopoietic progenitors from adult sources. For this, human MNCs from three different sources (umbilical cord blood [UCB], bone marrow, or G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood) were infected with purified MVMp at increasing MOI up to 5 PFU/cell, and the number of the CFU-GM and BFU-E colonies arising was scored in the respective cultures. As depicted in  Fig. 2B , no major differences in the inhibition of the colony-forming abilities induced by MVMp were observed between the cell sources. These experiments collectively indicate that infectious MVMp virions inhibit the clonogenic capacity of human CD34+ primitive hematopoietic progenitors in a MOI-dependent manner, regardless of the source of the mononuclear fraction containing CD34 +  cells used.
L42:Attempting to characterize the capacity of the MVM strains to interact with the human hematopoiesis at the organismal level, immunodeficient (NOD.Cg- Prkdc scid Il2rg tm1Wjl /ThomJ [NSG]) mice were transplanted with human cord-blood CD34+ cells to generate a xenogenic human hematopoiesis prior to intravenous infection with purified sterile-filtered MVMp and MVMi virions. Mice were then monitored by BM sampling along 120 dpi for human and mouse hematopoietic progenitors, virus replication and genetics, and survival (see scheme of the experimental procedure outlined in  Fig. 4A ). The proportion of human CD45+ cells in BM aspirates at 30–120 dpi showed a general high level of engraftment of human cells, although with ample heterogeneity ranging from 40% to 90%, both in control non-infected as well as in MVMi or MVMp infected transplanted mice ( Fig. 4B , upper panels). However, significant differences in the pool of primitive human hematopoietic progenitors were observed by flow cytometry quantitation along the infection time. As shown in the lower panels of  Fig. 4B , uninfected mice exhibited wide heterogeneity in the percentage of CD34+ progenitors with respect to total CD45+ human cells, ranging from 5% to 18%, whereas the heterogeneity was narrower in infected mice. The proportion of human CD34+ progenitors in mock and infected mice was similarly high, in the range of 10% at 30 dpi, although it declined to close to 5% at 60 dpi. However, as the infection progressed to later time points, while uninfected mice maintained a fairly high proportion of human primitive CD34+ progenitors, this proportion significantly declined to values that were more than twofold lower in MVMp- and MVMi-infected mice at 90 dpi, and further, the MVMp-infected surviving mice significantly showed the lowest CD34+ proportion (close to 2%) at 120 dpi ( Fig. 4B , bottom right). As exemplified for the 120 dpi time point, the global response of the bone marrow to MVMi and MVMp infection may drastically vary: whereas the pool of bone marrow mCD45+ cells was depleted by MVMi but enhanced by MVMp infection with respect to that of uninfected mice ( Fig. 4C , left), the pool of CD34+ cells in the bone marrow of uninfected and MVMi-infected mice remained at a higher proportion than in the MVMp-infected mice ( Fig. 4C , right). In summary, despite the heterogeneity of the data, likely reflecting the complexity of the MVM strain interactions with the chimeric hematopoiesis of the BM-humanized mice, a viral suppressive effect on human primitive hematopoietic precursors could be drawn, which was more severe in MVMp infections.
L45:To dive into the features of the MVM strain interaction with human and mouse hematopoiesis at the organismal level, the extent of viral replication and genetics was determined in basal (NSG) and BM-humanized (h/NSG) main hematopoietic organs (BM and spleen). In NSG mice ( Fig. 5A , left), MVMi replicated the genome to very high levels in the hematopoietic organs at 60 dpi, whereas the MVMp did not, since we found more than 2 log less accumulated genomes in the BM and spleen. In consistency, the survival of NSG mice infected with MVMi was drastically reduced from 60 dpi, as previously reported in the infection of immunodeficient  scid  mice ( 43 ), with no surviving animals beyond 90 dpi. In contrast, MVMp only compromised survival after 110 dpi, and 50% of the animals still survived at 150 dpi by the end of the experiment ( Fig. 5B , left). However, the outcome of the infections in mice transplanted with human CD34+ hematopoietic cells (h/NSG) drastically differs and was, to a large extent, the opposite. Both strains replicate to a similar low level in bone marrow punctures (BMp) sampled at 60 dpi from h/NSG mice ( Fig. 5A , right), implying only a fivefold reduction in respect to the replication level obtained in the hematopoietic organs of NSG mice at 90 dpi for MVMp, but as high as five logarithmic units for MVMi. At 120 dpi, though, viral genomes could not be reliably detected in the hematopoietic organs of h/NSG mice, suggesting efficient clearance of both viral strains by a functional immune response developed from the CD34 +  transplants. Notably, the h/NSG mice survival was hampered by MVMp to a much greater extent than by MVMi ( Fig. 5B , right), as the MVMi infection lethality did not significantly diverge from that of uninfected transplanted mice in the long term, but MVMp infection drastically reduced mice survival beyond 100 dpi to background levels.
L46:Fig 5 MVM strain replication, pathogenicity, and evolution in normal and BM-humanized immunodeficient mice. ( A ) Quantitation of MVM genomes in mice. Viral genomes quantitated by qPCR with MVM-specific primers in low-molecular DNA isolated from the indicated organs from basal (left) and bone marrow-humanized (right) NGS mice. Shown are data obtained from BMp, BM, and spleen (S) from MVMp- and MVMi-infected mice. Samplings were performed at the post-infection times outlined in  Table 1 . The dotted line marks the reliable detection limit of the qPCR. Statistical significance:  P  = 0.0332 and  P  = 0.0107, respectively (* P  < 0.1). ( B ) Kaplan-Meier representation of NSG and h/NSG mouse survival subjected to the indicated treatments along 150 days post-infection. ( C ) Localization of the amino acid changes in the MVM capsid arising along the evolution of both viral strains in basal and BM-humanized NGS mice. The 3-D crystal structure of the MVMp and MVMi capsids is illustrated using Visual Molecular Dynamics and the PDB coordinates 1Z14 and 1Z1C, respectively. Amino acid changes are highlighted by arbitrary colors indicated for each type of residue.
L56:B19V of the genus  Erythroparvovirus,  so far the only other characterized parvovirus with the capacity to interfere with human hematopoiesis ( 14 ,  17 – 21 ), inhibits the colony formation by human precursors committed to the erythroid but not to the myeloid lineage ( 28 ,  29 ), and this inhibitory capacity increases with the differentiation stage from the BFU-E to the CFU-E precursor ( 30 ). This narrow tropism contrasts with that of the MVMp, whose toxic infection capacity for the CD34 +  human primitive precursors results in the absence of clonogenic activity of precursors committed to both the erythroid (BFU-E to the CFU-E) and the myeloid (CFU-GM) lineages ( Fig. 1 and 2 ). Nevertheless, both viruses share important characteristics in their life cycles in human hematopoietic cultures. B19V genome replicative intermediates can be amplified to high levels in differentiating erythroid precursors ( 30 – 32 ) coupled to the expression of the NS1 major viral replicative protein ( 75 ), as we find for MVMp in CD34+ progenitor cultures ( Fig. 3A through C ). Likewise, B19V infections of cultured human bone marrow cells yield minor amounts of infectious mature virus progeny ( 14 ,  75 ), paralleling the non-productive MVMp infection ( Fig. 3 ). This suggests a concourse of poorly characterized mechanisms restricting the virus life cycle. A genome packaging defect identified in the B19V-UT7/Epo leukemic cell line interaction ( 76 ) may explain, at least in part, the nature of these restrictions and perhaps account for the failed increase in ssDNA viral genome accumulation found in MVMp-infected primary CD34+ cultures ( Fig. 3A ). Interestingly, despite these growth restrictions in culture, natural B19V infections may result in very high levels of viremia ( 14 ,  21 ), suggesting that the complexity of erythroid receptors and regulatory intracellular factors required for productive infection cannot be reproduced  in vitro . This raises the intriguing possibility that putative MVMp infections of susceptible human patients might also lead to profound hematopoietic dysfunctions and elevated pathogenic viremia.
L78:For BM humanization of the mice, human CD34 +  cells were administered through the tail vein of 6–8-week-old female NSG mice sub-lethally irradiated with 1.5 Gy the day before transplant. Human engraftment analyses were conducted at periodic intervals after transplantation by BM aspiration from one femur by puncture through the knee joint, according to a previously described procedure ( 80 ). For infection, the mice were inoculated intravenously in the tail vein with 0.22 µm sterile-filtered purified viral stocks with a viral dose of 2.5 × 10 5  PFU/mouse of MVMi and 2.0 × 10 7  PFU/mouse of MVMp in 0.02 mL of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). At the end of the experiments, mice were sacrificed, and bone marrow (harvested by crunching the bones), peripheral blood, and spleen were analyzed by flow cytometry (BD LSR Fortessa; BD Biosciences). Cells were stained with hCD45-APC-Cy7 (clone HI30, BioLegend), hCD19-PECy7 (clone SL25C1, BioLegend), hCD33-PE (Beckman Coulter), and hCD34-APC (clone 581, BioLegend). 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole dihydrochloride-positive cells were excluded from the analysis. Analysis was performed using FlowJo software (BD Biosciences).
L194: NS .  1989 .  Feline parvovirus propagates in cat bone marrow cultures and inhibits hematopoietic colony formation in vitro .  Blood 
L315: G .  1997 .  Evidence for persistence of human parvovirus B19 DNA in bone marrow .  J Med Virol 
L343: L .  1988 .  Replication of B19 parvovirus in highly enriched hematopoietic progenitor cells from normal human bone marrow .  J Virol 
L355: N .  1986 .  Replication of the B19 parvovirus in human bone marrow cell cultures .  Science 
L360: N .  1987 .  Productive infection by B19 parvovirus of human erythroid bone marrow cells in vitro .  Blood 
L634: JE .  1996 .  Identification of primitive human hematopoietic cells capable of repopulating NOD/SCID mouse bone marrow: implications for gene therapy .  Nat Med 
L775:aAminoacid change at VP2 numbering; bindependent Sanger-sequences of PCR products supporting the mutation; cnumber of mice in which the mutation has been observed; dBMp, Bone Marrow puncture; BM, Bone Marrow; S, spleen. eat least two different extractions
L797:Table S4. Samples from onco-hematological patients subjected to bone marrow transplantation.
L820:*Total DNA was isolated from peripheral blood cells or bone marrow. T-ALL, T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia; B-ALL, B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia; AML, acute myeloblastic leukemia; MDS, myelodysplastic syndrome; CML, chronic myeloblastic leukemia; BM, bone marrow.
L821:Table S5. Bone marrow samples analyzed by PCR for MVM genomes obtained from onco-hematological patients subjected to allogenic transplantation.
