L1:In vivo  and  in vitro  therapeutic evaluation of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells in liver cancer treatment
L10:Hepatocellular carcinoma is the seventh most common kind of cancer worldwide and the second largest cause of cancer-related deaths in males, behind lung cancer. Globally, 866,000 people were diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in 2022, and nearly 42,240 new cases will be identified in 2025 in the United States. Using stem cells obtained from bone marrow can effectively reduce the number of malignant tumor cells through the induction of an epigenetic impact. We obtained bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) from mice and collected the conditioned medium (CM) from cultured cells with 90% confluency. The effect of the CM was identified using both 2D and 3D sphere cultures of wild-type human liver cancer cell line (HepG2), considering variations in sphere size and percentage. A cell death study was conducted using the cell cytotoxicity (MTT) kit, while the quantity of stem cells was determined by immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis. The effectiveness of our therapy was demonstrated by an  in vivo  assessment of BM-MSCs through intravenous injection and the currently available anticancer drug cisplatin.  In vitro , the combination treatment resulted in a synergetic effect, leading to 74% cell death in both adherent and spherical cultures when treated with 25 µM of cisplatin and 90%CM.  In vivo , the histological study indicated a decrease in tumor size and number following treatment with cisplatin and BM-MSCs. The study lasted 18 weeks and revealed that the body weight of mice improved across all treatment groups, with the combination group exhibiting the most significant improvement. Both  in vitro  and  in vivo  studies showed the synergetic effect of cisplatin and isolated conditioned medium. Our study aimed to identify more efficient therapeutic approaches utilizing stem cells and existing marketed medications to minimize adverse effects with better efficacy.
L15:Recently, new studies have demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) generated from bone marrow (BM) can decrease the epigenetic modification in malignant cells ( Lan et al., 2021 ). MSCs, which are non-hematopoietic multipotent stromal cells with the ability to self-renew, can differentiate into a variety of  in vitro  cell lineages, including adipocytes, chondrocytes, osteocytes, and fibroblasts ( Nethi et al., 2023 ). Bone marrow-derived MSCs (BM-MSCs) are regarded as the major source of isolated stem cells, even though stem cells can also be obtained from a range of sources, including adipose tissue and the umbilical cord ( Hong et al., 2014 ). An essential component of the hepatic malignant environment, mesenchymal stem cells MSCs are thought to play a significant role in the development and spread of tumors ( Zhang X et al., 2022 ). The ability of BM-MSCs to migrate through, attach to, and engraft into the environment of wounded tissues draws attention to their therapeutic potential ( Matsuzuka et al., 2010 ). Several bioactive substances, such as cytokines, growth factors, and extracellular vesicles, which can have immunosuppressive, anti-inflammatory, and apoptotic effects, are released when these engrafted cells are introduced into the tumor microenvironment. To therapeutically activate the anticancer potential, it is possible to introduce BM-MSCs into the hepatic malignant environment.
L34:Twenty 8-week-old disease-free mice were prepared for the isolation of BM-MSCs. The mice were rendered unconscious by administering a ketamine/xylazine solution intraperitoneally (1.16 g of ketamine and 2.3 g of xylazine per 1 kg of body weight). The mice model’s tibias, femurs, and humeri were dissected through the experimental period with precise scissors. The bone marrow was removed from the bone cavity by centrifugation process using cell culture media. Separated bone marrows were put through a 70-mm filter mesh to remove unwanted materials. The obtained BM-MSCs were transferred to a cell culture flask and placed inside an incubator set to 37°C and 5% CO 2  to grow the MSCs. The non-adherent cells were eliminated by changing the old BM-MSC media to the freshly prepared media through 24–72 h of incubation. Cells were sub-cultured by keeping the split ratio of 1:3 when the cultures achieved 70%–90% confluence ( Soleimani M & Nadri S, 2009 ). The presence of BM-MSCs was identified using the specific gene expression by a relative quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assay. The presence of the stem cells was also identified based on the fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis using the CD34, CD49, and CD90 markers.
L45:The bone marrow-derived stem cells (BM-MSC) were obtained from mice and cultured for three passages. RNA was isolated for stem cell marker expression analysis and comparison to the culture of the C57BL cell line. Based on the  in vivo  study, the tissue obtained from the sacrificed mice was considered to collect RNA as early as possible. The liver was homogenized for 2 min in a 2-mL Eppendorf tube and the tissue lysate solution was provided by following the protocol (Bioer Technology, China). Following the washing and centrifugation process, the RNA purity was determined using the NanoDropTM spectrophotometer at a wavelength of A260/A280. A RevertAid first-strand cDNA synthesis kit (Thermo Scientific United States, Cat no. EP0451) was used for cDNA synthesis. The expression of several genes (p53, TGF-α, TGF- β, and VEGF) through treatment was measured by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) using TB Green TM Premix Ex Taq (TAKARA BIO INC.) following the manufacturer’s instructions.  Table 1  shows the human primers used in this study. GAPDH was used as a reference gene. Each sample was run in triplicate. The Livak (2 −ΔΔCT ) method was used to quantify each gene’s expression.
L135:Krampera M. Glennie S. Dyson J. Scott D. Laylor R. Simpson E.  ( 2003 ).  Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells inhibit the response of naive and memory antigen-specific T cells to their cognate peptide .  Blood 
L174:Soleimani M. Nadri S.  ( 2009 ).  A protocol for isolation and culture of mesenchymal stem cells from mouse bone marrow .  Nat. Protoc.
