L7:Wnt/β-catenin signaling plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of chronic kidney diseases (CKD), which is associated with macrophage activation and polarization. However, the relative contribution of macrophage-derived Wnts in the evolution of CKD is poorly understood. Here we demonstrate a critical role of Wnts secreted by macrophages in regulating renal inflammation and fibrosis after various injuries. In mouse model of kidney fibrosis induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO), macrophages were activated and polarized to M1 and M2 subtypes, which coincided with the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling.  In vitro , multiple Wnts were induced in primary cultured bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) after polarization. Conversely, Wnt proteins also stimulated the activation and polarization of BMDMs to M1 and M2 subtype. Blockade of Wnt secretion from macrophages in mice with myeloid-specific ablation of Wntless (Wls), a cargo receptor that is obligatory for Wnt trafficking and secretion, blunted macrophage infiltration and activation and inhibited the expression of inflammatory cytokines. Inhibition of Wnt secretion by macrophages also abolished β-catenin activation in tubular epithelium, repressed myofibroblast activation and reduced kidney fibrosis after either obstructive or ischemic injury. Furthermore, conditioned medium from Wls-deficient BMDMs exhibited less potency to stimulate fibroblast proliferation and activation, compared to the controls. These results underscore an indispensable role of macrophage-derived Wnts in promoting renal inflammation, fibroblasts activation and kidney fibrosis.
L12:Macrophages are a heterogenous population of tissue-resident cells. They often possess phagocytic ability by cleaning dead cells and debris and produce various cytokines, chemokines and other soluble factors  11 - 13 . They are originated from progenitor mononuclear phagocyte system within bone marrow and migrated into tissues. Upon activation, the tissue-resident macrophages are polarized to classically activated M1 subtype macrophages, which could switch to alternatively activated M2 subtype macrophages along with disease progression. Both subtypes of macrophages could secret pathogenic chemokines and cytokines, such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) in the M1 and IL-10, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β1) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) in the M2, which mediate proinflammatory and profibrotic effects in kidney diseases  14 - 16 . Earlier studies have shown that Wnt7b is produced by macrophages to stimulate tubular repair and regeneration after acute kidney injury (AKI)  17 . However, whether Wnt ligands produced by macrophages play a role in the pathogenesis of CKD is poorly understood.
L19:To validate the role of Wnts in macrophage activation, we isolated and cultured primary macrophages from bone marrow (BM) by using a defined differentiation protocol. As shown in Figure  2 A, the purity of BM-derived macrophages (BMDMs) was confirmed by immunofluorescence staining for F4/80 protein. We then assessed the expressions of Wnts mRNA in different polarized macrophages induced by interferon-γ and lipopolysaccharides (IFN-γ/LPS) or IL-4, respectively. As shown in Figure  2 B, multiple Wnt ligands such as Wnt1, Wnt2, Wnt3a, Wnt4, Wnt5a, Wnt6a, Wnt7a and Wnt9b were induced after BMDMs were polarized to M1 phenotype triggered by IFN-γ/LPS. Similarly, when BMDMs were polarized to M2 phenotype by IL-4, the mRNA levels of those Wnt ligands were upregulated as well (Figure  2 C), whereas the mRNA of Wnt2b, Wnt7b, Wnt8a, Wnt8b, Wnt9a and Wnt16 was undetectable in the BMDMs after either IFN-γ/LPS or IL-4 treatment. As shown in Figure  2 B and C, Wnt6a was mostly upregulated in M1 macrophages, while Wnt3a was highly induced by M2 subtype. To further assess the role of Wnts in macrophage polarization, we treated quiescent macrophages with a mixture of recombinant Wnt proteins (Wnt1 and Wnt3a). As shown in Figure  2 D-F, Wnt proteins induced M1 polarization as shown by an upregulation of CD86 and TNF-α proteins. Similarly, Wnts also induced the mRNA expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), IL-1β and CD86 by qRT-PCR. However, Wnts appeared to have a stronger role in mediating M2 than M1 polarization and induced substantially high levels of MR and arginase 1 proteins in BMDMs (Figure  2 , J-M). Furthermore, Wnts also induced the expression of TGF-β1 mRNA and the proteins and mRNA of several fibrosis-related proteins such as fibronectin, collagen I and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) (Figure  2 , N-Q), consistent with the notion of macrophage-myofibroblast transition (MMT)  in vitro 
L22:To study the role of Wnts in macrophage activation  in vivo , we utilized conditional knockout mice in which  Wntless  ( Wls ) gene was selectively disrupted in myeloids via the Cre-LoxP system (Figure  3 A). As shown in Figure  3 B, BMDMs isolated from mice with myeloid-specific deletion of Wls (Lyz2-Wls-/-) lost Wls protein expression, compared to those from Lyz2-Wls+/+ mice. Of note, Lyz2-Wls-/- kidney displayed no overt abnormality under basal physiological conditions. As shown in Figure  3 C and D, ablation of Wls in the BMDMs of Lyz2-Wls-/- mice attenuated their migration capacity, compared to Lyz2-Wls+/+ controls. We observed that M1 polarization induced by IFN-γ/LPS was associated with the secretion of Wnt3a into the supernatants of Wls+/+ BMDMs. However, loss of Wls in BMDMs reduced Wnt3a secretion (Figure  3 E).
L23:To further assess the role of Wnts secretion in macrophage activation, we examined the effect of Wls ablation on macrophage polarization after stimulation with IFN-γ/LPS or IL-4. As shown in Figure  3 F and G, ablation of Wls largely blocked the induction of IL-1β and IL-6 mRNA in response to IFN-γ/LPS stimulation. Similarly, loss of Wls inhibited the mRNA expression of arginase 1 and MR in BMDMs in response to IL-4 stimulation (Figure  3 H and I), suggesting that macrophage activation is dependent on Wnt signaling.
L24:We found that blockade of Wnt secretion by ablating Wls also substantially inhibited the mRNA expression of various Wnt ligands in BMDMs during the induction of macrophage polarization (Figure  3 J-Q). During M1 polarization induced by IFN-γ/LPS, induction of Wnt2, Wnt4 and Wnt6a mRNA in Wls-/- BMDMs was abolished, whereas loss of Wls appeared to induce Wnt5a and Wnt9b expression. However, when BMDMs were induced to undergo M2 polarization by IL-4, loss of Wls hampered the induction of all Wnts including Wnt1, Wnt2, Wnt3a, Wnt4, Wnt5a, Wnt7a and Wnt9b (Figure  3 J-Q). These results suggest that Wnts induction at the mRNA level during M1 or M2 polarization is dependent on Wnt secretion in an autocrine fashion.
L33:To explore how myeloid-specific Wls regulates kidney fibrosis, we investigated the effect of macrophages lacking Wls on the activation of renal interstitial fibroblasts in an  in vitro  system. As depicted in Figure  7 A, BMDMs were isolated from Lyz2-Wls-/- and Lyz2-Wls+/+ mice, and induced toward M1 polarization by IFN-γ/LPS. The conditioned media (CM) were collected and used to treat the cultured normal rat kidney interstitial fibroblast cells (NRK-49F). As shown in Figure  7 B-E, BMDM-CM from Lyz2-Wls-/- mice (Wls-/-/CM) significantly inhibited the expressions of fibronectin, vimentin and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in NRK-49F cells, compared to Wls+/+/CM controls. Consistently, immunofluorescence staining for fibronectin produced the same results (Figure  7 F). The BrdU incorporation assay also confirmed that Wls-/-/CM hampered fibroblast DNA synthesis and proliferation, compared to Wls+/+/CM controls (Figure  7 F and G).
L36:Macrophages are a subset of mononuclear phagocytic cells which originate from bone marrow to be tissue-resident, and they play pivotal role in tissue homeostasis and immune surveillance. Upon stimulation by tissue injury, macrophages are activated and polarized, and they then secret a host of proinflammatory and profibrotic cytokines and produce ECM components and other injurious molecules  12 ,  13 . As such, they are not the bystander but one of the important players in the pathogenesis of human diseases including CKD  27 ,  28 . In this study, we demonstrate that macrophage activation and polarization are associated with the simultaneous induction of multiple Wnt ligands. Furthermore, Wnt induction and subsequent secretion are obligatory for macrophage activation and polarization. We further show that conditional blockade of Wnt secretion in a myeloid-specific fashion in Lyz2-Wls-/- mice reduces macrophage activation and infiltration, inhibits myofibroblast activation and matrix production, and mitigates renal fibrotic lesions. These studies provide unambiguous evidence for a critical role of macrophage-derived Wnts in renal inflammation and fibrosis after kidney injury. Our findings for the first time illustrate that macrophages are one of the major sources of Wnt ligands in the injured kidney that promote renal fibrosis and CKD progression.
L37:Macrophages are heterogenous cell populations with a high degree of plasticity and diversity  11 . They are often classified into two major functional subsets, the classically activated (M1) or alternatively activated (M2) macrophages. M1-type macrophages play a strong role in the initiation and maintenance of inflammation since they secrete inflammatory cytokines including TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IFNγ  11 ,  28 . Especially in the early stage of kidney injury, M1-type macrophages activation is predominant and destructive. The proinflammatory responses would induce tubular cell damage and cause the loss of renal function. The degree of M1 macrophages infiltration is associated with the severity of kidney injuries and serves as a key factor determining CKD progression  13 ,  29 . In contrast to M1, M2-type macrophages are primarily involved in would healing and tissue remodeling. As such, macrophages exert their diverse roles in the initiation, progression and resolution of kidney fibrosis  14 ,  30 . In this study, we show that Wnt/β-catenin signaling plays a pivotal role in stimulating both M1 and M2 macrophage activation and polarization (Figure  2 ), suggesting that this signaling is a master regulator that controls all processes of macrophage activation and differentiation in the injured kidney. By creating the conditional knockout mice in which Wls is deleted in a myeloid-specific fashion, we further demonstrate that macrophage-derived Wnts are obligatory for regulating the activation, differentiation and migration of macrophages (Figure  3  and  4 ). These findings are in line with a previous report that Wnt5a and Wnt6 are involved in macrophage differentiation and proliferation in mycobacterium tuberculosis infection  31 . Of note, while blockade of Wnts secretion by deleting Wls in BMDMs inhibits most Wnts expression during macrophage activation, it actually induces Wnt5a and Wnt9b expression when BMDMs were induced toward M1 polarization (Figure  3 N and Q). The exact reason behind this discrepancy remains unknown, but it suggests that Wnts are differentially regulated during macrophage M1 polarization.
L38:Wnt/β-catenin is a developmental signaling pathway which is largely silent in adult kidneys but reactivated in various nephropathies  20 ,  32 ,  33 . Notably, the activation of Wnt/β-catenin is often associated with accumulation of inflammatory cells such as macrophages. However, whether the Wnts produced by activated macrophages are required for the development and progression of kidney fibrosis remained to be elucidated. In this regard, the present study provides convincing evidence that macrophage-derived Wnts plays a pivotal role in the evolution of kidney fibrosis after either obstructive or ischemic injury (Figure  5  and Figure  6 ).  In vitro  co-culture studies also corroborate the important role of macrophage-derived Wnts in promoting interstitial fibroblasts proliferation and activation (Figure  7 ). These results underscore that myeloid-derived Wnts plays a central role in kidney fibrosis through promoting both macrophage polarization and fibroblasts activation and matrix production  34 . Of interest, we found that Wnts also induce the expression of TGF-β1 and several key fibrosis-related proteins such as α-SMA, collagen I and fibronectin in BMDMs (Figure  2 ), suggesting that myeloid-derived Wnts may promote kidney fibrosis by activating macrophage-to-myofibroblast transition (MMT), a phenotypic conversion that plays an important role in renal fibrogenesis  11 ,  26 . Although not tested, we speculate that blockade of Wnt secretion by macrophages may also alleviate tubular injury in CKD, as β-catenin expression in renal tubular epithelium was markedly downregulated in Lyz2-Wls-/- mice after injury as well (Figure  5  and  6 ). It has been reported that tubular β-catenin activation is known to induce cellular senescence  35 ,  36 , which releases the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) leading to fibroblast activation. As such, a decreased β-catenin activation in renal tubular epithelium in the Lyz2-Wls-/- mice would prevent kidney from tubular cell senescence, thereby leading to renal protection.
L39:It should be pointed out that a previous study reported the beneficial effects of Wnt7b induction in macrophages after AKI, which is associated with its ability to promote tubular cell proliferation and regeneration  17 ,  20 . At first glance, it appears contradictory to our present study showing macrophage-derived Wnts contribute to renal inflammation and fibrosis after obstructive and ischemic injury (Figure  5  and  6 ). However, it is well known that Wnt/β-catenin excerts opposite actions in AKI versus in CKD. While β-catenin activation is protective by promoting injury repair and regeneration in AKI, sustained activation of this signaling leads to fibroblast activation and proliferation, thereby aggravating scar formation  20 ,  37 . In this context, it is not surprising that macrophage-derived Wnts play an important role in macrophage polarization and interstitial fibroblast activation in diseased kidneys. It is also worthwhile to stress that, because the present study used Lyz2-Cre mice, Wnt secretion is blocked not only in macrophages but also in the neutrophils  in vivo . Therefore, we cannot exclude the possibility that some renal protection in Lyz2-Wls-/- mice may be mediated by blocking Wnt secretion from neutrophils  in vivo , although blockade of Wnt secretion from BMDMs is sufficient for suppressing macrophage and fibroblast activation  in vitro .
L53:Bone marrow derived macrophage (BMDM) preparation and polarization
L54:Bone marrow cells were isolated from the tibia and femur of C57BL/6 mice. For their differentiation into BMDM, the extracted cells were incubated for 7 days in Petri dishes with 10% L929 conditioned media (source of M-CSF), 10% FBS and 1% penicillin/streptomycin (Sigma) in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Media (DMEM). After 7 days, BMDMs were seeded into six-well cell culture plates. For M1 phenotype induction, BMDMs were treated with LPS (5 ng/ml) (Sigma) and IFN-γ (20 ng/ml) (PeproTech, China) for 24 h. For M2 phenotype induction, BMDMs were treated with IL-4 (20 ng/ml) (PeproTech, China) for 24 h.
L56:Normal rat kidney interstitial fibroblast (NRK-49F) cells were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (Manassas, VA). Serum-starved NRK-49F cells were treated with conditioned medium of BMDM from Lyz2-Wls+/+ or Lyz2-Wls-/- mice in the absence or presence of ICG-001 (10 µM) for 48 h. After incubation for 48 h, NRK-49F cells were then collected and subjected to various analyses. Some cells were plated on sterile coverslips for immunofluorescence staining.
L66:Figure 2 Wnt upregulation is associated with macrophages polarization and activation  in vitro .  ( A ) Characterization of the isolated bone marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM). Immunofluorescence staining for F4/80 showed the purity of cultured BMDMs. Scale bar, 25 µm. ( B ) BMDMs were induced to M1 polarization using of IFN-γ and LPS, and the expressions of various Wnts were detected by qRT-PCR. ( C ) BMDMs were induced to M2 polarization by IL-4, and the expressions of various Wnts were detected by qRT-PCR. ( D ) Western blot analyses showed that Wnts mixture induced M1 polarization by upregulating CD86 and TNF-α. ( E - F ) Quantitative data of CD86 and TNF-α in different groups as indicated. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3). ( G - I ) qRT-PCR showed that Wnts induced the mRNA expression of M1 polarization markers such as iNOS, IL-1β and CD86. ( J ) Western blotting showed that Wnts induced M2 polarization markers mannose receptor (MR) and arginase-1. ( K ,  L ) Quantitative data of MR and arginase 1 proteins. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3). ( M ,  N ) qRT-PCR showed that Wnts induced the mRNA expression of MR and TGF-β1. ( O ) Western blotting showed that Wnts induced fibrosis-related proteins such as fibronectin, collagen I and α-SMA in BMDMs. ( P ) Quantitative data of fibronectin (FN), collagen I (Col I) and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) proteins. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3). ( Q ) qRT-PCR showed that Wnts induced the mRNA expression of FN, Col I and α-SMA. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3).
L67:Figure 3 Mice with myeloid-specific ablation of Wls inhibits macrophage polarization and activation.  ( A ) Mice genotyping was analyzed by PCR. Control Wls fl/fl  mice (Lyz2-Wls+/+) and myeloid-specific Wls knockout mice (Lyz2-Wls-/-) (genotype: Wls fl/fl , Cre + ) are shown. ( B ) Western blot analysis demonstrated a substantial reduction of Wls protein in the BMDM of Lyz2-Wls-/- mice, comparing to Lyz2-Wls+/+ controls. ( C ,  D ) Wound-healing assay showed that loss of Wls reduced BMDM migration. Representive micrographs ( C ) and quantitation of migrated cells across the line ( D ) are shown. * P  < 0.05 versus Lyz2-Wls+/+ controls (n = 4). Scale bar, 150 µm. ( E ) ELISA assay showed the levels of Wnt3a protein secreted by BMDMs in the absence or presence of IFN-γ and LPS. * P  < 0.05 versus Lyz2-Wls+/+ controls (n = 3). ( F ,  G ) qRT-PCR demonstrated the mRNA levels of IL-1β and IL-6 in BMDMs from Lyz2-Wls+/+ and Lyz2-WLs-/- mice in the absence or presence of IFN-γ and LPS. * P  < 0.05 versus Lyz2-Wls+/+ controls (n = 3). ( H ,  I ) qRT-PCR demonstrated the mRNA levels of arginase 1 ( H ) and MR ( I ) in BMDMs from the control and Lyz2-Wls-/- mice in the absence or presence of IL-4. * P  < 0.05 versus Lyz2-Wls+/+ controls (n = 3). ( J - Q ) qRT-PCR demonstrated the mRNA levels of Wnt1 ( J ), Wnt2 ( K ), Wnt3a ( L ), Wnt4 ( M ), Wnt5a ( N ), Wnt6a ( O ), Wnt7a ( P ) and Wnt9b ( Q ) in BMDMs from the control and Lyz2-Wls-/- mice in the absence or presence of IFN-γ/LPS or IL-4, respectively. * P  < 0.05 versus Lyz2-Wls+/+ controls (n = 3).
L71:Figure 7 Macrophage-derived Wnts plays a key role in fibroblasts activation.  ( A ) Experimental design. BMDM cells were collected from the Lyz2-Wls+/+ and Lyz2-Wls-/- mice. After BMDM cells were polarized by IFN-γ/LPS for 48 h, conditioned medium (CM) were harvested and used to stimulate NRK-49F fibroblast cells. ( B - E ) Western blot analyses show that conditioned medium derived from Wls-/- BMDM (Wls-/-/CM) inhibited the expression of fibronectin, vimentin and PCNA in NRK-49F cells, compared to the controls (Wls+/+/CM). Representative Western blot ( B ) and quantitative data ( C - E ) are presented. * P  < 0.05 versus Wls+/+/CM controls (n = 3-4). ( F ) Immunostaining for fibronectin and BrdU in NRK-49F cells treated with Wls+/+/CM and Wls-/-/CM, respectively. Arrows indicate positive staining. Scale bar, 30 µm. ( G ) Quantitative data of BrdU staining are presented in panel (G). * P  < 0.05 versus Wls+/+/CM controls (n = 8). ( H - J ) Western blot analyses show that inhibition of β-cateninn signaling by ICG-001 abolished fibroblast activation induced by Wls+/+/CM. NRK-49F cells were incubated with Wls+/+/CM or Wls-/-/CM in the absence or presence of ICG-001 for 48 h. Representative Western blot ( H ) and quantitative data ( I ,  J ) are presented. * P  < 0.05 versus Wls+/+/CM controls (n = 4).
