L7:Magnesium-based composites are a focal point in biomaterials research. However, the rapid degradation rate of magnesium alloys does not align with the healing time of bone tissue. Additionally, the host reaction caused by magnesium implantation hampers its full osteogenic potential. To maintain an appropriate microenvironment, it is important to enhance both corrosion resistance and osteogenic activity of the magnesium matrix. In this study, a composite scaffold composed of mineralized collagen and magnesium alloy was utilized to investigate the regulatory effect of mineralized collagen on mouse macrophages and evaluate its impact on mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in terms of osteogenesis, immune response, and macrophage-induced osteogenic differentiation. This experiment examined the biocompatibility of mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells and macrophage-induced osteogenic differentiation in vitro, and examined the expression levels of relevant pathways proteins. Magnesium calcium alloys/mineralized collagen exhibited extensive spreading, facilitated by broad and abundant pseudopodia that firmly adhered them to the material surface and promoted growth and pseudopodia formation. The findings revealed that magnesium calcium alloy/mineralized collagen scaffold materials induced osteogenic differentiation mainly through M2 polarization of macrophages. This effect was mainly mediated by promoting the integrin α2β1-FAK-ERK1/2 signaling pathways and inhibiting the RANK signaling pathways.
L11:With the increasing number of elderly individuals, there has been a significant rise in the prevalence of bone-related diseases worldwide [ 1 ]. Annually, over six million fractures occur globally, with 56 % requiring permanent or temporary internal fixation materials for surgical treatment [ 2 , 3 ]. Consequently, the development of biomaterials for internal fixation is an active area of research in orthopedics. Magnesium (Mg) and its alloys are biodegradable and good biocompatibility. Compared to other metals commonly used in clinical practice, Mg alloys have a similar modulus of elasticity to that of the bone cortex, thereby reducing the occurrence of the “stress shielding effect.” However, degradability is advantageous for Mg alloys, but it also poses limitations as it can degrade rapidly without aligning with bone tissue healing time [ 4 ]. Moreover, host responses triggered by Mg alloy implantation hinder its full osteogenic potential. Therefore, one major limitation in traditional research lies in neglecting the significance of immune responses [ 5 , 6 ]. Timely and appropriate immune responses play a crucial role in promoting bone healing [ 7 ]. Henceforth, during synthesis techniques employed for Mg alloy composites fabrication, optimizing corrosion resistance within the Mg matrix and enhancing osteogenic activity become imperative to maintain an optimal “bone immune microenvironment.” This will enable matching between matrix degradation rates and osteogenesis during in vivo implantation while addressing key challenges associated with clinical applications involving Mg-based metals. Several researchers have implemented this strategy within their studies on artificial bone grafting materials. Zeng and colleagues [ 8 ] prepared Mg–Li–1Ca with plasma electrolysis (MAO) coating and conducted experimental studies on its biocompatibility and corrosion resistance. They found that the coating of the MAO/PLLA composite materials greatly improved the corrosion resistance and compatibility of the cells. Mineralized collagen (nHAC) is a biomimetic composite material of nanohydroxyapatite and type I collagen. Bone, cartilage, sinews, and dentine are made of nHAC [ 9 ]. Therefore, nHAC can be used to repair bone defects, promote bone development, and accurately regulate bone immune responses. By regulating the polarization of macrophages during bone regeneration, nHAC can strongly induce enough M2 macrophages in vivo and in vitro to regulate the host immune response [ 10 , 11 ]. Regarding the regulatory role of bone biomaterials in osteogenesis, the immune response has both advantages and disadvantages. Adverse immune reactions can result in chronic inflammation and the formation of a fibrous capsule around the biomaterials, which hinders contact and integration between osteoblasts and the implant, thereby disrupting bone remodeling [ 12 ]. Therefore, we applied a coating of nHAC material to the surface of the Mg alloys. In our previous research, Mg 2+ /Col I can stimulate the integrin α2β1-FAK-ERK1/2 pathway to promote osteogenesis [ 13 ]. RANK (NF-kB receptor activating Ligand) receptor activating ligand is a cytokine belonging to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family. It induces differentiation of precursor osteoclasts into mature osteoclasts. By activating corresponding signal transduction pathways, RANK stimulates differentiated osteoclasts to express specific genes that enable mature osteoclasts to undergo bone resorption and maintain their survival [ 14 ]. Hence, we investigated whether Mg–Ca/nHAC biomaterials promote osteogenic differentiation by regulating macrophage polarization and its underlying mechanisms. The aim of this study was to investigate the promotion of osteogenic differentiation by Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds through inducing macrophage polarization and the effect of scaffolds on mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (mBMSCs), so as to elucidate the mechanisms of Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds on bone repair.
L21:According to the GB/T16886.5 standard, mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (mBMSCs, sourced from Shanghai Saibaikang) were added into DMEM supplemented with 10 mL/dL fetal bovine serum, 0.1 mol/L dexamethasone, 50 μg/mL Vitamin C, and 10 mmol/L β-sodiumglycerophosphate. The cells were cultivated in a constant temperature incubator (5 % CO 2 , 37 °C).
L96:We investigated the impact of macrophage polarization on the osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells through an ALP activity assay, with results depicted in  Fig. 12 . Perform the ELISA according to the ALP assay kit instructions. Calculation was performed using the designated formula and the data was plotted using GraphPad Prism. The ALP activity of the Mg–Ca/nHAC group recorded the highest value. Moreover, both the Mg–Ca alloy group and Mg–Ca/nHAC group exhibited higher ALP activity compared to the control group. Both Mg–Ca, nHAC, and Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds significantly enhanced ALP activity. Moreover, the ALP activity in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group significantly surpassed that of all other groups. Photography under a light microscope, noticeable distinctions in blue nodules were observed across various treatment groups, particularly in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group. Positively stained cells appeared as dark bluish-purple. Fig. 12 After the samples were cultured with mBMSCs for 7 days, ALP activity of the samples was measured and photographed (scale bar: 100 μm).*p < 0.05. Fig. 12
L105:In recent years, the role of Mg alloys as bone repair materials has been widely scrutinized in research. However, the rapid degradation of Mg alloys presents a challenge, as it may not align with the required healing time for bone tissue. Additionally, the accelerated degradation and formation of hydrogen gas may impact the host organism's response. To address these limitations, researchers have successfully employed surface coatings or alloys to modify their physical and chemical properties [ [15] ,  [16] ,  [17] ]. Mg–Ca ternary or Zn alloyodegradable alloys composed of Mg, zinc, and calcium have gained attention in recent years [ [18] ,  [19] ,  [20] ]. Therefore, we used nHAC solution (10 mg/mL acetic acid solution) uniformly applied to the surface of Mg–Ca alloys to detect the degradation rate. As shown in  Fig. 3 A-B, the corrosion resistance of Mg–Ca alloys were enhanced by nHAC coating. Furthermore, the porous 3D structure of mineralized collagen has a high capacity to bind serum proteins and absorb calcium ions, which may be beneficial in promoting cell attachment, growth and differentiation [ [21] ,  [22] ,  [23] ]. Bone immune microenvironment plays a key role in bone regeneration process. Among various players, innate immune cells such as macrophages play a crucial role [ 24 , 25 ]. Some studies have found that Mg alloys stimulate inflammation. However, on the 5th and 10th day post implantation, Mg alloys exhibited significant regulatory effects on macrophage polarization towards the M2 type. This process subsequently promotes tissue healing while reducing immune responses to degradation products from the alloy. These effects are attributed to ions (Mg, Zn, and Ca ions) released during early surface degradation interacting with intracellular ion channels. Firstly, we constructed composite scaffolds and then this experiment used scanning electron microscope and energy spectrum mapping to observe the surface morphology and elemental distribution of each group of material scaffolds, and found that a large number of uniform pores existed on the surface of all porous scaffolds, which may be caused by the presence of nHAC powder in the form of aggregates on the surface of the materials (as shown in  Fig. 2 B and C). The materials surface had a certain porosity. The porosity of bone tissue engineering scaffolds is essential for promoting endogenous cell migration and inward growth of newborn bone. When porous scaffolds are used for bone tissue engineering, the presence of pore structure promotes cell spreading and intercellular transport and facilitates cell adhesion and growth [ 26 , 27 ]. As shown in  Fig. 2 D-I, EDX spectra of Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds show the presence of Ca, Mg, P, and O. The high oxygen content may be the cause of sample oxidation. Because nHAC contains nano-hydroxyapatite, it is rich in calcium, phosphorus and other elements. Therefore, we conducted experiments in vitro to investigate the role and mechanism of Mg–Ca/nHAC scaffolds in promoting the biological behaviour of mBMSCs by regulating the bone immune microenvironment. The results of the CCK8 experiment (shown in  Fig. 4 ,  Fig. 8 ) indicated that there was no significant difference observed in RAW264.7 cells when the extract vs media ratio was 1:1. Treatment of mBMSCs, at 24, 48 h, there was no significant difference in cell viability between the groups, while at 72 h, both the Mg–Ca and nHAC groups had a significant promotion of cell viability when the ratio of the extract to the medium was 1:2. It is noteworthy that the cell viability was significantly increased when the ratio of extract to medium was 1:2 in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group. While when the ratio of extract to medium was 1:1, there was a significant inhibition of cell viability, which suggests that the Mg–Ca and nHAC groups have a synergistic effect. It may also be due to the different effects of different concentrations of Mg 2+  and nHAC on cells behaviour. Wang et al. showed that 6–10 mM Mg 2+  promoted adhesion and proliferation of osteoblasts. Among them, 10 mM Mg 2+  significantly promoted the adhesion and differentiation of osteoblasts, and 18 mM Mg 2+  significantly inhibited the proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts [ 28 ]. Based on the results of CCK8 experiments and related literatures, it was shown that the Mg 2+  concentration of the Mg–Ca/nHAC group was in the range of 10 mM at a 1:2 ratio of extract to medium, while the Mg 2+  concentration of the Mg–Ca/nHAC group was greater than or equal to 18 mM at a 1:1 ratio of extract to medium. So based on the results above, we treated the cells with a 1:2 ratio of extract to medium in order to determine the compatibility of different materials with mBMSCs through cell apoptosis and cell adhesion, cell morphology analysis. As shown in  Fig. 4 , the experimental results showed that compared to the control group, the experimental treatments significantly inhibited apoptosis, especially the Mg–Ca/nHAC group had the strongest ability to inhibit apoptosis, followed by the nHAC group. The comparison between groups was also statistically significant. nHAC group had a greater ability to inhibit apoptosis than Mg–Ca group. The results of apoptosis experiments showed a significant reduction of apoptotic cells in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group, indicating better biocompatibility. It was also consistent with the results of CCK8 experiments. As shown in  Fig. 6 , compared to the control group, cells within the Mg–Ca/nHAC group exhibited full extension and flattening towards their surroundings, with broad and abundant pseudopodia firmly anchoring them to the material surface. This promoted cell growth and increased pseudopod count. The results indicated that the Mg–Ca/nHAC group had superior efficacy in promoting osteogenic differentiation, followed by the nHAC group and then the Mg–Ca group. Cells in contact with materials usually undergo three stages: adhesion, proliferation and differentiation. The state of cell adhesion directly affects the subsequent proliferation and differentiation of cells [ 29 ]. The results of the experiments are shown in  Fig. 7 . These cells appeared elongated and stretched, and their actin filaments were clearly visible. The cells in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group showed a particularly dispersed appearance, suggesting that the Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds are favourable for cell adhesion, further also promoting cell proliferation and differentiation. The bone immune microenvironment plays an important role in promoting osteogenesis, in order to verify whether the material scaffolds play an osteogenic role through the bone immune microenvironment. Morphological analysis and ELISA were performed on RAW264.7 macrophages ( Fig. 9 ). The Mg–Ca/nHAC group displayed higher cell density, enhanced growth state, and more extended synapses compared to other groups. Cells within this group exhibited elongation towards poles-characteristic features of M2 phenotype [ 30 ]. Macrophages are innate immune cells that play an important role in substance-induced immune responses. Biomaterial implantation can induce the polarization of macrophages to M1 and M2 phenotypes. M1-type macrophages are mainly activated by Th1-type cytokines and show high expression of MHCII, produce large amounts of TNF-α, IL-12 and NO. M1-phenotype macrophages are associated with the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6. M2-type macrophages are mainly activated by Th2-type cytokines, which are mainly expressed as CD206, and through the secretion of the inhibitory cytokine IL-10. M2-type macrophages are associated with anti-inflammatory responses and tumour diseases [ 31 , 32 ]. As shown in  Fig. 11 , ELISA results showed significant up-regulation of certain markers associated with M2 macrophages (IL-10, Arg-1, CD206) in comparison to the control group for Mg–Ca/nHAC treatment. Moreover, we further detected IL-6 by immunofluorescence staining experiments, which showed that in the control group, the fluorescence intensity of IL-6 was significantly higher, while in the experimentally treated group, the fluorescence intensity of IL-6 was significantly lower (as shown in  Fig. 10 ). This observation suggests that Mg–Ca/nHAC has a significant anti-inflammatory effect, which is conducive to promoting its polarization towards the M2 phenotype. Based on these results, we conjectured whether Mg–Ca/nHAC promotes osteogenic differentiation of mBMSCs by modulating macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype, which facilitates bone repair. Macrophage supernatants were collected and added to the medium to treat mBMSCs. The expression levels of osteogenic markers (OPN, OCN, ALP, RUNX2, BMP-2, and VEGF) were assessed by RT-qPCR and ALP activity assay. Notably, ALP is a crucial indicator for osteoblast differentiation. The results obtained from the ALP experiments ( Fig. 12 ) demonstrated that the Mg–Ca/nHAC group exhibited significantly higher ALP activity with dark blue-purple positive cells compared to other groups. Furthermore, PCR analysis ( Fig. 13 ) revealed significantly elevated levels of osteogenic genes in both Mg–Ca and nHAC groups. However, these levels were particularly pronounced in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group when compared to the control group. These findings showed that M2-type polarization of macrophages promotes mBMSCs' osteogenic differentiation process effectively. Western blot experiments indicated that integrin α2 and ERK1/2 protein expressions were markedly upregulated in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group while FAK and RANK protein expressions showed significant downregulation when compared to other groups ( Fig. 14 ). These differences may be due to the distance between integrins of adhesive related particles in the nano dimension [ 33 ]. In stromal cells, activation of the integrin α2β1-FAK-ERK (MAPK) signaling pathway has been reported. Integrins are integral membrane proteins that mediate cell matrix and cell-cell adhesion. Integrins mediate cell adhesion to collagen through magnesium-dependent interactions and it can be used as messenger conversion signals to initiate downstream cascades [ 34 , 35 ]. Many studies have showed that Mg 2+  played a dual role in the integrins-collagen interaction and Mg 2+  promoted osteoblasts adhesion through integrins and activated focal adhesion kinase (FAK). FAK is a key component of the integrins-mediated signaling pathway. FAK act as a signaling molecule that transduces integrins receptor signaling through the intracellular protein cascade to participate in the adhesion process [ [36] ,  [37] ,  [38] ,  [39] ]. The RANK protein plays a crucial role in bone and immune system regulation, making it a key component in the field of bone immunity. Osteoclasts release vesicles expressing RANKL, which interact with RANK on osteoblasts. This interaction triggers RANK reverse signaling, promoting bone formation. Our previous findings demonstrated that Mg 2+ /Type I collagen can activate the integrin α2β1-FAK-ERK1/2 pathway, thereby enhancing osteogenesis. These results are consistent with those reported in other studies. In addition, mauer et al. reported that IL-6 signalling promotes macrophage M2 polarization to reduce pronounced inflammation and insulin resistance, and identified IL-6 signalling as an important determinant of macrophage M2 polarization [ 40 , 41 ]. Hence, the regulation of macrophage M2-type polarization by Mg–Ca/nHAC biomaterials may involve a more intricate process that needs to be explored in the future.
