L1:Modifying immune cells using mouse bone marrow-derived cell exosomes during administration of heat-killed lactic acid bacterium  Enterococcus faecalis
L5:Previously, the mechanism underlying the immunostimulatory effect of orally administered heat-killed  Enterococcus faecalis  (HkEf) mediated by exosomes secreted after intestinal macrophage phagocytosis was clarified. In the present study, mouse bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DCs) were used as intestinal DCs.  In vitro  studies evaluating the response of mouse spleen cells to exosomes purified and isolated from intestinal DCs stimulated with HkEf showed a significant increase in standard DCs and plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs), indicating a positive effect on DCs, mainly pDCs, and possibly contributing to their immunostimulatory effects. The microRNAs (miRNAs) of exosome fractions derived from intestinal DCs and macrophages were also examined using bone marrow progenitor cells. HkEf stimulation released miRNA-rich exosomes, which acted as an immune response signal mediator, and increased various miRNAs other than miR-146 that are essential for refilling innate immune cells. In the present study, the effect mediated by miRNA-rich exosomes on the distant immune system from intestinal immunity (macrophages, DCs) was observed via orally administered HkEf, a  Lactobacillus  preparation. The findings of the present study revealed that this mechanism can potentially prevent systemic infection.
L11:The present study aimed to elucidate the effect of HkEf phagocytosed by intestinal dendritic cells (DCs) to secrete exosomes, on immune cells and their underlying mechanisms using mouse bone marrow-derived DCs [BMDCs; mainly plasmacytoid (pDCs) or conventional (cDCs)] as intestinal DCs, to examine the effects of exosomes purified and isolated from HkEf-stimulated BMDCs on a subset of immune cells derived from mouse spleen, and analyzing microRNAs (miRNAs) in exosomes derived from BMDCs and macrophages (BMDMs).
L15:Preparation of cells used in the experiment . Dendritic progenitor cells (mouse bone marrow-derived) were obtained from BALB/c mouse bone marrow derivatives [Bone Marrow-Derived Dendritic Precursor (BALB/c); Mouse; cat. no. BMDC01C; Cosmo Bio Co., Ltd.].
L18:Induction of BMDCs (pDC/cDC) . DCs were induced to differentiate from bone marrow cells according to the standard method ( 9 ). Dendritic progenitor cells (mouse bone marrow-derived) were inducted for differentiation using the Flt3 ligand (Flt3-L; cat. no. 060-04803; FUJIFILM Wako Pure Chemical Corporation) to obtain pDCs and cDCs. For their differentiation, Flt3, a cytokine, was essential ( 10 , 11 ). The pDCs and normal DC fraction of cDCs can reportedly be inducted via culturing bone marrow cells in Flt3-L-containing culture medium ( 11 ).
L29:MiRNA assay of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions.  Mouse bone marrow cells were stimulated using GM-CSF (077-04674; FUJIFILM Wako Pure Chemical Corporation). HkEf (-) and (+) exosome fractions were obtained from BMDMs as previously described by Matsuo  et al  ( 5 ).
L42:miRNA assay of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions
L43:The heatmap of the FirePlex ® miRNA multiplex assay of BMDM-derived exosome fractions in Experiment 3 is revealed in  Fig. 3 .
L46:In a previous study by the authors ( 5 ), BMDMs were used as test cells. Orally administered HkEf was suggested to have been phagocyted by gut macrophages after which they released exosomes as signal transmitters for immune regulation. In Experiment 1 of the present study, a stimulation test on mouse spleen cells was also conducted using BMDCs (pDC/cDC) obtained via differentiation with Flt3-L. Quantitative changes were predicted in exosomes upon HkEf stimulation; however, no marked quantitative differences were observed between the HkEf (-) and (+) groups in terms of exosome release. While cDC and pDC significantly increased in the HkEf (+) group compared with that in the HkEf (-) group based on the effect on the immune spleen cell subset, no such influence was observed in NK cells, activated NK cells, and red pulp macrophages. This suggests that the qualitative change of exosomes is accompanied by quantitative changes in cDC and pDC. Furthermore, exosomes related to immune response signals were released from gut immune cells due to HkEf intake and were transported to remote tissues; this finding is supported by a previous study ( 5 ) on systemic immunostimulatory regulation.
L47:In Experiment 2, the miRNAs of BMDC-derived exosome fractions with or without HkEf stimulation were further examined. In human monocyte-derived cells, miR-146, which was significantly increased due to HkEf stimulation, is reportedly increased upon inflammatory stimulation, such as by inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β), lipopolysaccharide and peptidoglycan ( 12 ). Natural immunity is significantly affected by miR-146. When miR-146 forcibly expressed in mouse hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and is transplanted in mouse bone marrow after eliminating the cells via radiation, their differentiation to myelocytes in the blood is promoted, whereas their differentiation to lymphocytes is impaired ( 13 ). This is because of a filling mechanism; when natural immunity cells combat infectious pathogens, the number of cells is often reduced ( 14 , 15 ). miR-146 is suggested to play a part in this mechanism and preferentially induces the myeloid differentiation pathway rather than the lymphocyte differentiation pathway.
L49:Conversely, miR-21 expression has been shown to inhibit apoptosis ( 19 ). In the present study, the miRNAs that acted against survival upon HkEf stimulation (specifically, miR-146, miR-29b, miR-29c and miR-21) were greatly increased. An increase in pDC was confirmed in exosome-added mouse spleen cells; hence, it was hypothesized that apoptosis can, overall, be inhibited. In miR-34a-overexpressing bone marrow chimera and transgenic mice, increased DCs were confirmed ( 20 ). miR-21 and miR-34a promote monocyte to DC differentiation by inhibiting the expression of JAG1 and WNT1, proteins that are necessary for hematopoietic differentiation and generation ( 21 ). miR-22 acts as a negative control factor of IRF8, which is a transcription factor that determines the cell fate of neutrophils, monocytes and DCs. Inducing miR-22 expression in DC generation promotes cDC generation with compensation of pDC; miR-22 inhibition shows the opposite effect ( 22 ). It influences the differentiation of the DC subset. Upon miR-221 expression, pDC generation is inhibited ( 23 ). During DC maturation, miR-221 expression is inversely related to the expression of the cell-cycle regulator p27 kip1 . Therefore, the apoptosis of DCs due to the accumulation of p27 kip1  appears to be inhibited ( 24 ). In the differentiation from monocytes to immature and mature DCs, the expression of miR-29c, miR-21 and miR-342 is increased ( 24 ). miR-223 is highly expressed in hematopoietic cells and is essential for natural immune reactions to control bone marrow differentiation and granulocyte function ( 25 , 26 ). In hematopoietic cells, miR-223 overexpression promotes granulocyte differentiation, whereas the differentiation of erythrocytes and macrophages is inhibited ( 27 ). Although miR-223 expression increased in all processes upon the induction of differentiation of human embryonic stem cells to DCs, the expression of the differentiation marker is decreased by the miR-223 inhibitor ( 28 ).
L50:In Experiment 3, miRNAs of exosome fractions derived from BMDMs were examined.
L51:The significantly increased miRNAs were almost common among the BMDC- and BMDM-derived exosome fractions, despite small differences in the quantity. Unlike the measured value of BMDC-derived exosome fractions, the rate of increase in miR-17 and miR-20a, which inhibited differentiation to macrophages targeting RUNX1( 29 ), were smaller in BMDM-derived exosome fractions (Experiment 3: miR-17, 1.25-fold, miR-20a, 1.39-fold; Experiment 2: miR-17, 12.17-fold, miR-20a, 9.59-fold). In a previous study of BMDM-derived mouse spleen cells ( 5 ), the number of red pulp macrophages increased. This may be because the rate of increase in BMDM-derived miR-17 and miR-20a was smaller than that of BMDCs, because of which differentiation to macrophages may be induced. Although in Experiment 3 miR-223 decreased more in the HkEf (+) than in the HkEf (-) groups, in Experiment 2, miR-223 conversely increased significantly (Experiment 3: 0.54-fold; Experiment 2: 11.01-fold). As previously mentioned, the inhibition of miR-223 induces an increase in erythrocytes and macrophages, while differentiation to DCs is inhibited.
L53:The aforementioned discussion is a hypothesis from existing literature. On the other hand, phenotypic analysis revealed that there were no differences in the frequency and cell number of DC and macrophage populations in the spleen of miR-223-deficient mice ( 25 ). This may not be due to the effect on spleen immune cells of miRNA-rich exosomes from intestinal DCs and macrophages, but on bone marrow-derived stem cells in the bone marrow.
L57:In conclusion, BMDCs induced from mouse bone marrow progenitor cells were stimulated with HkEf, and the released exosomes were purified and isolated. As a result of examining the effect of this exosome on immune cell subsets derived from mouse spleen cells, it can be suggested that this exosome has an immunostimulatory effect mediated by DCs, mainly that of pDC ( in vitro ).
L58:Moreover, as a result of measuring miRNAs in HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions derived from BMDCs (pDC/cDCs) and BMDMs (macrophages), effects mediated by miRNA-rich exosomes such as miR-146, which play a part in the complement mechanism of cells of the innate immune system are hypothesized. Orally administered HkEf releases exosomes involved in immune response signals by intestinal immune cells (macrophages and DCs), and regulates immune activation as an effect on distant immune tissues via blood circulation. Thus, it can be hypothesized that this is one of the mechanisms to prevent systemic infection.
L69:Figure 1 Effect of mouse bone marrow-derived DC-derived HkEf-stimulated exosomes on spleen cells. HkEf (-) vs. HkEf (+), as determined by t-test.  * P<0.05, mean ± SD. HkEf, heat-killed  Enterococcus faecalis;  NK, natural killer; ND, no significant difference; DCs, dendritic cells; pDC, plasmacytoid DCs; cDCs, conventional DCs.
L70:Figure 2 Immuno-miRs of mouse BMDC-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions. (A) A heat map was used to visualize the assayed miRs. Ratio to mean value is shown by log10 conversion. (B and C) MFI of miR shown in (B) HkEf (-) group and (C) HkEf (+) group. In the HkEf (-) group, exosome fractions were released from HkEf-non treated BMDCs (pDC/cDC). In the HkEf (+) group, exosome fractions were released from HkEf-treated BMDCs (pDC/cDC). miRs, microRNAs; BMDCs, bone marrow-derived dendritic cells; HkEf, heat-killed  Enterococcus faecalis ; MFI, mean fluorescence intensity; pDC, plasmacytoid DCs; cDCs, conventional DCs.
L71:Figure 3 Immuno-miRs of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions. (A) A heat map was used to visualize the assayed miRs. Ratio to mean value is shown by log10 conversion. (B and C) MFI of microRNA shown in (B) HkEf (-) group and (C) HkEf (+) group. In the HkEf (-) group, exosome fractions were released from HkEf-non treated BMDMs. In the HkEf (+) group, exosome fractions were released from HkEf-treated BMDMs. miRs, microRNAs; BMDMs, bone marrow-derived macrophages; HkEf, heat-killed  Enterococcus faecalis ; MFI, mean fluorescence intensity.
L85:14 Ueda Y Kondo M Kelsoe G Inflammation and the reciprocal production of granulocytes and lymphocytes in bone marrow J Exp Med 201 1771 1780 2005 10.1084/jem.20041419 15939792
L100:29 Fontana L Pelosi E Greco P Racanicchi S Testa U Liuzzi F Croce CM Brunetti E Grignani F Peschle C MicroRNAs 17-5p-20a-106a control monocytopoiesis through AML1 targeting and M-CSF receptor upregulation Nat Cell Biol 9 775 787 2007 10.1038/ncb1613 17589498
