L26:To establish whether  S.  Typhimurium could preferentially survive within macrophages that have ingested viable versus dead host cells, an in vitro tissue culture infection assay was developed. Primary bone marrow–derived mouse macrophages (BMDMs) were generated from Slc11a1 wild-type mice. BMDMs were activated with the cytokine interferon-gamma (IFNγ) and LPS on the premise that in vivo  S.  Typhimurium are likely to encounter activated macrophages after the first few days of infection [ 14 , 15 ]. Activated BMDMs were incubated with media, polystyrene beads, apoptotic cells, necrotic cells (data not shown), or live cells. Within thirty minutes, both beads and cells were phagocytosed by the activated BMDMs ( Figure 5 B). As expected, many of the beads or cells added to the unactivated BMDMs were not phagocytosed and were therefore removed with washing ( Figure 5 A).  S.  Typhimurium was added to the BMDMs 1-hour after the addition of beads or cells. Thirty minutes later, gentamicin was added to kill extracellular bacteria. Two hours post-infection, intracellular  S.  Typhimurium were enumerated by plating lysed BMDMs on selective media. There were up to 2-fold differences in the number of bacteria in BMDMs across samples ( Figure 6 A), but the patterns of these differences varied between experiments and were not considered significant. By 18-hours post-infection, the number of intracellular  S.  Typhimurium declined in activated BMDMs that were pre-incubated with media only, beads, or dead cells ( Figure 6 B). This is consistent with previous observations that activated BMDMs effectively kill  S.  Typhimurium [ 16 – 18 ]. However, BMDMs that phagocytosed viable cells prior to infection exhibited 2-fold bacterial replication by 18-hours and 35-fold replication by 42-hours ( Figure 6 B and  6 C). Similar results were obtained when BMDMs were incubated with Jurkat E6–1 cells, a human T cell derived line ( Figure 6 ), or with DG-75 cells, a human B cell derived line (data not shown). These results indicate that  S.  Typhimurium survives and replicates preferentially within BMDMs that have phagocytosed viable cells.
L27:Figure 5 Activated Bone Marrow–Derived Macrophages (BMDMs) Phagocytose Live Host Cells Confocal fluorescence microscopy. BMDMs are blue (F4–80 and MOMA-2), human T cells (Jurkats) are green (CMFDA-stained), and DNA is gray (DAPI). (A–C) 30 min after the addition of Jurkats to BMDMs. (A) Unactivated BMDMs show little association with Jurkat cells, many of which were washed away. Scale bar is 40 μm (B and C). Activated macrophages phagocytose Jurkat cells; arrow denotes engulfed cell, arrowheads show partially engulfed cells. Scale bars are 40 μm (B) and 8 μm (C). (D–F) 42 h after mock-infection (D), or  S.  Typhimurium-infection (O-antigen, red, arrows, E and F). Scale bars are 20 μm (D), 40 μm (E), and 16 μm (F).
L28:Figure 6 S.  Typhimurium Preferentially Survive within BMDMs That Phagocytosed Live Host Cells Gentamicin protection assay analyzed by plating for colony-forming units (CFU). BMDMs were incubated with media alone (white bars), beads (light gray bars), apoptotic (dark gray bars), or live (black bars) cells (Jurkats) and then infected with  S.  Typhimurium. (A) Bacterial invasion, as determined 2 h post-infection. (B–C)  S.  Typhimurium survival expressed as percent of invasion (A). (B) 18 h post-infection and (C) 42 h post-infection.
L29:The plating assay described above is a population assay. To determine the status of bacterial replication in individual BMDMs upon infection with  S.  Typhimurium, the number of bacteria per BMDM was determined by immunofluorescence confocal microscopy. BMDMs were incubated with live host cells and scored based on whether or not live cells had been phagocytosed. The number of intracellular  S.  Typhimurium rods within each BMDM was enumerated. By 18-hours (data not shown) and 42-hours post-infection, BMDMs that had ingested viable human ( Figures 5 E,  5 F, and  7 A) or mouse ( Figure 7 B) T cells contained more bacteria than BMDMs on the same cover-slip that had ingested nothing. The observation that both mouse and human T-lymphocyte derived tissue culture cells have similar effects suggests that this phenomenon is not species specific. These results corroborate the colony-forming unit analyses ( Figure 6 ) and indicate that macrophages which have phagocytosed viable cells could provide  S.  Typhimurium with a niche for replication.
L30:Figure 7 S.  Typhimurium Preferentially Survive within Individual BMDMs That Phagocytosed Live Cells Gentamicin protection assays analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. Histograms of activated BMDMs that did (white bars) or did not (black bars) phagocytose live T cells. BMDMs were subsequently infected with  S.  Typhimurium. The  x -axis indicates the number of bacteria (>6, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, or 0) per BMDM at 42 h post-infection. Experiments were performed with human (A) or mouse T cells (B). Student's  t -test  p -values are shown (** p  < 0.01, *  p  < 0.05).
L32:The BMDMs used above were derived from Slc11a1 wild-type mice. Many researchers work with Slc11a1 G169D  (homozygous loss-of-function) mouse macrophage-like cell lines, such as J774s or RAW264.7s. These cells allow  S.  Typhimurium to replicate to much higher levels than their wild-type counterparts [ 19 ].  S.  Typhimurium replication was compared in RAW264.7 cells that did, or did not, phagocytose viable leukocytes. RAW264.7 cells were activated with IFNγ, incubated with viable human or mouse T-lymphocyte derived tissue culture cells, and then infected with  S.  Typhimurium. Intracellular bacteria were enumerated as described above, but consistent results were not obtained. Observation of individual cells by fluorescence microscopy indicated that relative to activated BMDMs, fewer activated RAW264.7 cells phagocytosed live T cells; human and mouse T cells were engulfed by 52 ± 3% and 87 ± 5%, respectively, of BMDMs, compared to only 8 ± 2% and 68 ± 2%, respectively, of RAW264.7 cells. To determine whether individual RAW264.7 cells that did ingest viable T cells were permissive for  S.  Typhimurium replication, intracellular bacteria were enumerated using fluorescence microscopy 18-hours (data not shown) and 42-hours post-infection. Experimental variation was minimized by comparing RAW264.7 cells with or without ingested T cells from the same infection-wells. As expected, RAW264.7 cells were quite permissive for  S.  Typhimurium replication and multiple bacteria were enumerated per cell. Nevertheless, uptake of either human or mouse T cells correlated with increased bacterial load ( Figure 8 ). This suggests that  S.  Typhimurium survival in macrophages that have phagocytosed viable cells is a phenomenon that can occur in cell lines as well as in primary cells and is Slc11a1-independent.
L35:Hemophagocytosis is the phenomenon of activated macrophages engulfing cells of the hematopoietic lineage [ 20 ]. It can occur in patients infected with evolutionarily diverse microbial agents, including Staphylococci, Mycobacteriae, Leishmaniae, Epstein-Barr virus, and influenza virus [ 20 , 21 ]. Hemophagocytosis is also associated with genetic, neoplastic, and rheumatic disorders. Patients with hemophagocytosis typically experience fever, splenomegaly, and cytopenias, specifically leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia [ 20 ]. Bone marrow, liver, or spleen biopsies may reveal numerous hemophagocytic macrophages in these patients [ 21 ]. While it is clear that in clinical situations hemophagocytosis is pathological [ 20 ], it is unknown whether the phenomenon could benefit the host in certain situations or at sub-clinical levels.
L36:Hemophagocytosis is an established clinical feature of human typhoid fever. English-language observations of hemophagocytosis in typhoid patients date back to 1898 with the description of large phagocytic cells containing red and white blood cells in livers obtained from patients who died during the first couple weeks of infection [ 22 ]. More recent papers also describe hemophagocytosis in typhoid patients, sometimes referring to the hyperphagocytic macrophages as “typhoidal cells” [ 23 – 29 ]. For example, in one study, bone marrow biopsies were performed on 40 juvenile patients who tested positive for typhoid, paratyphi A or paratyphi B by blood culture and agglutination. Thirty-four patients (85%) had macrophages that contained multiple cell types, including granulocytes, lymphocytes, blood platelets, and erythrocytes [ 30 ]. Thus, hemophagocytosis occurs in a significant subset of typhoid patients.
L38:It is difficult to experimentally determine within an animal model whether engulfed cells of infected tissues were alive or dead upon phagocytosis. Therefore a cell culture assay was developed to test the corollary that  S.  Typhimurium survives preferentially in macrophages that phagocytosed viable leukocytes versus dead or no leukocytes. This assay relied upon activating macrophages with the inflammatory cytokine interferon-gamma (IFNγ), which can play a major role in maintaining and possibly establishing hemophagocytosis in humans [ 31 ]. Severe systemic hemophagocytosis is often rapidly fatal due to a dramatic reduction in circulating red blood cells. Patients with severe hemophagocytosis have high IFNγ blood serum levels and can be successfully treated with a combination of inhibitory anti-IFNγ antibodies and blood transfusion. This indicates that IFNγ is important for maintenance of the pathological state, likely via macrophage activation [ 21 ]. One consequence of in vitro macrophage activation with IFNγ is increased phagocytosis of particles, including beads, dead cells, and live cells ( Figure 5  and data not shown). Therefore, IFNγ-activated tissue culture macrophages that had engulfed different particles were used to establish whether macrophages that ingested viable host cells preferentially allow  S.  Typhimurium to survive. First, activated primary bone marrow–derived macrophages were incubated with beads, viable lymphocytes, or dead lymphocytes, each of which became phagocytosed ( Figures 5  and  6 ). The macrophages were infected with  S.  Typhimurium and bacterial survival was evaluated over time. Bacteria were not visualized within lymphocytes under our experimental conditions. This is consistent with a report that  S.  Typhimurium does not infect T cells [ 32 ], but another group found that under some conditions, the bacteria can infect B cells [ 33 ]. In our experiments,  S.  Typhimurium survived and replicated only in macrophages that ingested viable cells ( Figures 5 – 7 ). This was not likely a function of the number of phagocytosed live versus dead cells because similar numbers of each were engulfed by macrophages across experiments ( Figure 6 A). Analogous experiments were performed with RAW264.7 cells, a commonly used macrophage-like mouse cell line. Individual RAW264.7 cells that had phagocytosed viable mouse or human T-lymphocytes contained more intracellular  S.  Typhimurium than RAW264.7 cells that did not engulf T cells ( Figure 8 ). These observations suggest that tissue culture macrophages as well as primary macrophages will be useful for identifying molecular mechanisms of  S.  Typhimurium replication in macrophages that engulfed viable cells. Moreover,  S . Typhimurium survival in macrophages that engulfed viable mouse or human cells suggests that the phenomenon is not limited to mice. Thus, macrophage phagocytosis of viable cells and/or subsequent infection with  S.  Typhimurium may inhibit  S.  Typhimurium killing by the macrophage and could provide the bacteria with a survival niche in vivo .
L48:Liver and spleen samples were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, embedded in 2% agarose, and cut into 50 μm sections on a Leica Vibratome VT1000S. Sections were incubated in serum-free protein block (Dako Cytomation) containing 0.2% saponin and then with subsets of the following primary antibodies: rabbit anti- S.  Typhimurium LPS O-antigen Group B polyclonal antisera (1:500; BD Biosciences), rat anti-mouse F4–80 and MOMA-2 (1:10; Serotec), phalloidin-Alexa488 (1:200; Molecular Probes), biotin-conjugated anti- Gr-1/Ly-6G/RB6-8C5 (1:25; MCA771B, Serotec), and biotin-conjugated hamster anti-CDɛ (1:25; BioLegend). Anti-Gr-1/Ly-6G/ RB6-8C5 recognizes a low-molecular-weight phosphatidylinositol-anchored cell surface glycoprotein expressed on granulocytes [ 12 ], a subset of eosinophils, plasmacytoid dendritic cells (which produce IFNα and IL-12 in response to viruses but not bacteria) [ 45 ], and transiently in the bone marrow during developmental stages of monocytes. This antibody does not cross-react with Ly-6C [ 46 ], as previously reported [ 47 ]. Sections were incubated with the following secondary antibodies: goat anti-rabbit-Alexa568, goat anti-rat-Alexa680, streptavidin-Alexa514, anti-hamster-Alexa546 (Molecular Probes). Sections were incubated with DAPI and mounted in ProLong Gold anti-fade reagent (Molecular Probes). Nick end-labeling was performed using Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) tissues sectioned at 4 μm on a Leica Microtome RM2035, processed according to the Fluorescein FragEL DNA fragmentation Detection kit (Calbiochem) instructions, and counterstained with DAPI. Samples were analyzed on a Leica TCS SP2 Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope (CLSM) and processed with Image Analysis software. For activated caspase-3 labeling, FFPE 4-μm thin sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, incubated with rabbit anti-cleaved-caspase-3 antibody (Serotec) and anti-rabbit-Alexa568, and analyzed with light microscopy. Throughout experiments both liver and spleen were examined, but only liver images are shown because the regularly shaped hepatocytes facilitate visualization of irregularly shaped macrophages. Tissues from 4 mice at 1-week post-infection, and 2 mice at 3-, 4-, and 8-weeks post-infection were examined.
L49:Bone marrow–derived macrophage isolation and culture.
L50:Bone marrow–derived macrophages (BMDMs) were isolated as previously described [ 48 ]. Briefly, marrow was flushed from femurs and humeri of 3.5–4.5 week old 129SvEvTac (Taconic) mice. Stem cells were isolated by overlaying on Histopaque-1083 (Sigma-Aldrich) and grown in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium (DMEM; Sigma-Alrich) supplemented w/ 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS; HyClone), glutamine, sodium pyruvate, and 10 ng/ml granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF; PeproTech) at 37 °C, 5% CO2 for 6 days [ 49 , 50 ]. Cells were assayed for expression of macrophage-specific markers, specifically a mixture of F4–80 and MOMA-2 as described above.
L52:BMDM or RAW264.7 cells (both are referred to as macrophages here, for clarity) were seeded at 10 5  cells per well in poly-L-lysine-coated 24- or 96- well tissue culture plates. Cells were activated with 20 ng/ml lipopolysaccharide (S.  enterica  Typhimurium LPS; Sigma-Aldrich) and/or 20 U/ml IFNγ (PeproTech) for 18 hr and activation was measured with Griess assays. Activated and unactivated macrophages were incubated with media alone, polystyrene beads (2μm; Molecular Probes), or lymphocytes that were necrotic (30 min −80 °C), apoptotic (30 min at 56 °C [ 51 , 52 ]), or live. The lymphocytes included human T-cell-derived Jurkat E6–1 cells [ 53 ], human B-cell derived DG-75 cells [ 54 ], and mouse transgenic T-cells expressing RFP (Remi Creusot, Stanford University). Beads or cells were added to the macrophages at a ratio of 10:1 (beads/cells: macrophages). After 30 min (RAW264.7s) or 1 hr (BMDMs) macrophages were washed and infected for 30 min with normal mouse serum (Sigma) -opsonized  S.  Typhimurium at a multiplicity of infection of 20 (BMDMs) or 10 (RAW264.7s). Cells were washed and incubated for 1.5 hr at 37 °C in fresh media supplemented with gentamicin (100μg/ml) to kill extracellular bacteria. Media was exchanged for media supplemented with gentamicin (10 μg/ml) to prevent extracellular bacterial growth. At 2, 18 or 42 hr, wells were washed twice with pre-warmed PBS, incubated with 1% Triton X-100 for 5 min, lysed, and serial dilutions plated for colony-forming units. Percent survival was calculated by dividing CFUs obtained after 18 or 42 hr, by the initial number of intracellular bacteria after 2 hrs. Release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), a eukaryotic cytoplasmic enzyme, into the media correlates with cell death and was measured with the Cytotox-One kit (VWR) according to the kit instructions. There were not significant differences in BMDM cell death between samples or over the course of the experiments (data not shown). For immunofluorescence visualization of macrophages, the cytoplasm of Jurkat E6–1 or DG-75 cells was pre-labeled with CMFDA (Molecular Probes). Co-cultures were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde and permeabilized with ice-cold methanol. Bacteria and/or macrophages were stained and visualized as described above. Statistical analyses were performed using a Students  t -test.
L151: Characterization and regulation of RB6-8C5 antigen expression on murine bone marrow cells 
L253: White blood cells and bone marrow in typhoid fever 
L261: Hemophagocytosis and granulomas in the bone marrow of a child with Down syndrome 
L276: Bone marrow pathology of culture proven typhoid fever 
L284: Bone marrow histiocytic hyperplasia and hemophagocytosis with pancytopenia in typhoid fever 
L292: Diagnostic value of bone marrow and blood picture in salmonellosis 
L428: Selective expression of Ly-6G on myeloid lineage cells in mouse bone marrow. RB6-8C5 mAb to granulocyte-differentiation antigen (Gr-1) detects members of the Ly-6 family 
L436: Bone marrow-derived macrophages: development and regulation of differentiation markers by colony-stimulating factor and interferons
