L9:We used  in vitro  infection of the primary AMs with the J2 retrovirus carrying the  v-raf  and  v-myc  oncogenes. Following initial isolation in media supplemented with murine macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), we subcloned three AM cell lines, designated ZK-1, ZK-2 and ZK-6. These cell lines grow well in RPMI-1640-10% FBS in the absence of M-CSF. These adherent but trypsin-sensitive cell lines have a doubling time of approximately 14 hours, exhibit typical macrophage morphology, and express macrophage-associated cell surface Mac-1 (CD11b) and F4/80 antigens. The cell lines show robust Fc-receptor dependent phagocytosis of opsonized red blood cells. Similar to freshly isolated AMs from MS -/-  mice, the cell lines exhibit decreased phagocytosis of unopsonized titanium dioxide (TiO 2 ), fluorescent latex beads and bacteria ( Staphylococcus aureus ) compared with the primary AMs from wild type (WT) C57BL/6 mice.
L15:Several murine macrophage cell lines from bone marrow [ 24 , 25 ], spleen [ 26 , 27 ], fetal liver [ 28 , 29 ], and lung [ 30 ] have been successfully obtained by  in vitro  infection of primary cell cultures with a recombinant J2 retrovirus carrying the  v-raf  and  v-myc  oncogenes. In addition, investigation of the function of both MARCO and SR-AI/II using MS -/-  mice has not been reported yet. These observations prompted us to develop a continuous alveolar macrophage cell line with MARCO and SR-AI/II deficient using the J2 retrovirus. This report describes the establishment, growth characteristics, morphological and functional characterization of a continuous line of alveolar macrophages which was derived from brochoalveolar lavage (BAL) obtained from MS -/-  mice [ 31 ]. Immortalization was conducted by infection of the primary AMs from MS -/-  mice with a retrovirus J2. The immortalized AMs were cloned by limiting dilution method. Three of the clones, designated as ZK-1, ZK-2 and ZK-6 were chosen for further characterization of macrophage phenotype and phagocytic function.
L39:Alveolar macrophages play a central role in lung defense [ 3 , 36 , 37 ]. The class A scavenger receptors (SRA) MARCO and SR-AI/II are expressed on alveolar macrophages and function in innate defenses against inhaled pathogens and particles [ 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 , 17 ]. However, large number of murine alveolar macrophages with SRA deficient are rarely available for  in vitro  studies. To further investigate the role of MARCO and SR-AI/II receptors in uptake of unopsonized particles and bacteria, alveolar macrophages isolated by BAL from MARCO -/-  and SR-AI/II -/-  mice were immortalized and cloned for this study. Immortalization was conducted as described previously by infection of alveolar macrophages with J2 retrovirus [ 30 ]. In this present study, we described that three clones ZK1, ZK2 and ZK6 were obtained by limiting dilution and further characterized. Our PCR genotyping results verified these three clones, ZK1, ZK2 and ZK6 are MARCO -/-  and SR-AI/II -/- -deficient (Fig.  1 ). These cell lines are able to grow rapidly in RPMI or DMEM complete media in the absence of exogenous M-CSF or other growth factors, and their doubling time is 12–16 h on the average in RPMI complete medium (Fig.  2 ). Their viability after freezing in liquid nitrogen and recovery into culture is satisfactorily high. These cell lines are also stable during the culture over the past 24 months. Therefore, these cell lines provide the advantage over freshly isolated cells of an unlimited source of phenotypically and functionally homogeneous cell populations.
L46:Titanium dioxide (TiO 2 ) was obtained from Baker Chemicals (Phillipsburg, NJ). Latex beads (1.0 μm in diameter) that show green fluorescence after excitation at 488 nm were purchased from Interfacial Dynamics Co (Portland, OR). Fluorescently-labeled, heat-killed bacteria ( Staphylococcus aureus ) were obtained from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR). All particles were suspended in balanced salts solution (BSS -  [124 mM NaCl, 5.8 mM KCl, 10 mM dextrose and 20 mM HEPES]) at stock solution and were probe sonicated for ~40 s (Model W-p200, setting 4; Ultrasonics, Plainview, NY) immediately prior to use. Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) and fetal bovine serum (FBS) were obtained from American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA); RPMI 1640 medium and PBS were purchased from BioWhittaker (Walkersville, MD); Gentamycin, penicillin/streptomycin, macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF), and Polybrene were obtained from Sigma (St. Louis, MO); MethoCult™ GF M3434, semi-solid medium was obtained from StemCell Technologies (Vancouver, Canada); Diff-Quik, a modified Wright-Giemsa stain was obtained from VWR (Boston, MA); Bovine washed red blood cells (RBCs) was purchased from Quad Five (Ryegate, MT); Rabbit IgG fraction of anti-sheep red blood cell was purchased from Rockland Inc (Gilbertsville, PA); Fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled anti-mouse F4/80 and FITC-labeled anti-mouse CD11b (Mac-1) were purchased from eBioscience Inc (San Diego, CA); FITC-labeled FcγIII/II receptor, and FITC-labeled rat isotype controls, IgG2a and IgG2b, and mAb 2.4G2 were obtained from BD BioScience Pharmingen (San Diego, CA). All chemical reagents not otherwise specified were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich.
L50:Alveolar macrophages (AMs) were obtained by repeated brochoalveolar lavage with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) from C57BL/6 mice or MARCO -/-  and SR-AI/II -/-  mice after being euthanized by intraperitoneal pentobarbital injection. Brochoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) was immediately placed on ice, centrifuged at 200 × g for 10 min and the pellets were washed twice with cold PBS. Cell counts and viability were determined by using a hemocytometer and trypan blue dye exclusion. Cytocentrifuge preparations were stained with Diff-Quik, a modified Wright-Giemsa stain to allow differential analysis. All BAL samples contained greater than 95% AMs. AMs were adjusted to 1 × 10 6  cells/ml in DMEM conditioned medium (CM), which contained DMEM medium supplemented with 15% FBS, penicillin (100 U/ml), streptomycin (100 μg/ml), 10 mM HEPES, and 10 ng/ml of mouse macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF).
L54:Primary AMs were isolated by BAL and stimulated to proliferate in DMEM conditioned medium at a density of 1 × 10 6  cells/ml in a 6-well plate (Costar, Cambridge, MA), and incubated for 24 h at 37°C with 5% CO 2 . Nonadherent cells were washed off with warm medium 6–8 h later. After an additional incubation for 24 h in DMEM conditioned medium, the nonadherent cells were washed off again, resulting in a population of cells with predominantly macrophage (>99%) morphology as determined with the modified Wright's stain. Adherent AM monolayers were infected with J2 virus supernatants mixed with DMEM conditioned media and polybrene. After 24 h, excess virus was removed and cells were exposed to a second round of J2 infection under the same conditions to improve transfection efficiency. Clusters of rapidly proliferating cells were evident ca. 10 days after initial infection. After 1 month, cells were grown in regular DMEM medium without M-CSF. The virus transformed cells progressively increased in number. Several AM cell lines rapidly growing in semi-solid medium (0.96% methylcellulose) were isolated and subsequently recloned by limiting dilution method. Three clones designated as ZK1, ZK2, ZK6 were characterized using the assays described below.
L70:AM : alveolar macrophage;  MØ , macrophage;  SR : scavenger receptor;  MARCO : macrophage receptor with collagenous structure;  MS -/- : MARCO and SRA-I/II-deficient;  WT : wild type;  BAL : brochoalveolar lavage;  CM : conditioned medium;  M-CSF : macrophage colony-stimulating factor;  DMEM : Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium;  Poly-I : polyinosinic acid;  DS : dextran sulfate;  TiO 2 : titanium dioxide.
L100:Blasi E Mathieson BJ Varesio L Cleveland JL Borchert PA Rapp UR Selective immortalization of murine macrophages from fresh bone marrow by a raf/myc recombinant murine retrovirus Nature 1985 318 667 670 4079980 10.1038/318667a0
L101:Blasi E Radzioch D Merletti L Varesio L Generation of macrophage cell line from fresh bone marrow cells with a myc/raf recombinant retrovirus Cancer Biochem Biophys 1989 10 303 317 2695237
L104:Cox GW Mathieson BJ Gandino L Blasi E Radzioch D Varesio L Heterogeneity of hematopoietic cells immortalized by v-myc/v-raf recombinant retrovirus infection of bone marrow or fetal liver J Natl Cancer Inst 1989 81 1492 1496 2778838 10.1093/jnci/81.19.1492
