L1:CD14-Dependent Monocyte Isolation Enhances Phagocytosis of  Listeria monocytogenes  by Proinflammatory, GM-CSF-Derived Macrophages
L13:Macrophages are an important line of defence against invading pathogens. Human macrophages derived by different methods were tested for their suitability as models to investigate  Listeria monocytogenes (Lm)  infection and compared to macrophage-like THP-1 cells. Human primary monocytes were isolated by either positive or negative immunomagnetic selection and differentiated in the presence of granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) or macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) into pro- or anti-inflammatory macrophages, respectively. Regardless of the isolation method, GM-CSF-derived macrophages (GM-Mφ) stained positive for CD206 and M-CSF-derived macrophages (M-Mφ) for CD163. THP-1 cells did not express CD206 or CD163 following incubation with PMA, M- or GM-CSF alone or in combination. Upon infection with  Lm , all primary macrophages showed good survival at high multiplicities of infection whereas viability of THP-1 was severely reduced even at lower bacterial numbers. M-Mφ generally showed high phagocytosis of  Lm . Strikingly, phagocytosis of Lm by GM-Mφ was markedly influenced by the method used for isolation of monocytes. GM-Mφ derived from negatively isolated monocytes showed low phagocytosis of  Lm  whereas GM-Mφ generated from positively selected monocytes displayed high phagocytosis of  Lm . Moreover, incubation with CD14 antibody was sufficient to enhance phagocytosis of  Lm  by GM-Mφ generated from negatively isolated monocytes. By contrast, non-specific phagocytosis of latex beads by GM-Mφ was not influenced by treatment with CD14 antibody. Furthermore, phagocytosis of  Lactococcus lactis ,  Escherichia coli , human cytomegalovirus and the protozoan parasite  Leishmania major  by GM-Mφ was not enhanced upon treatment with CD14 antibody indicating that this effect is specific for  Lm . Based on these observations, we propose macrophages derived by  ex vivo  differentiation of negatively selected human primary monocytes as the most suitable model to study  Lm  infection of macrophages.
L17:Macrophages play a central role in activating and finely balancing the pro- and anti-inflammatory pathways of the host immune system to mount effective host responses against invading pathogens.  In vivo , macrophage differentiation is driven by GM- and M-CSF  [7] ,  [8] . High levels of GM-CSF induce a pro-inflammatory phenotype resulting in high IL–12 secretion. These pro-inflammatory cells are also termed M1 macrophages. By contrast, M-CSF polarizes macrophages to an anti-inflammatory phenotype characterized by IL–10 secretion, which is referred to as M2 macrophages  [9] . Under normal conditions tissue macrophages show an anti-inflammatory phenotype, mostly devoted to tissue repair  [8] . Additionally, blood monocytes are likely predisposed towards an anti-inflammatory phenotype due to high M-CSF levels in plasma  [10] ,  [11] . During infections, GM-CSF levels are increased stimulating the generation and release of monocyte/macrophage precursors in the bone marrow and skewing the macrophage population towards a pro-inflammatory phenotype  [8] ,  [12] .
L18:Pro- and anti-inflammatory macrophage populations can be differentiated  ex vivo  from human blood monocytes stimulated by either GM-CSF or M-CSF  [13] – [16] . GM-CSF monocyte-derived macrophages (GM-Mφ) or M-CSF monocyte-derived macrophages (M-Mφ) have distinct morphology, pathogen susceptibility, and effector functions  [8] ,  [9] ,  [15] – [17] , which phenotypically correspond to M1 and M2 macrophages, respectively. Both states of differentiation are reversible  [16] ,  [18] ,  [19] .
L29:Following isolation, monocytes were cultured in Lumox® dishes (Sarstedt, Germany) for 7 days with RPMI 1640 medium containing 10% FBS, 10 mM L-glutamine, 1% (v/v) penicillin/streptomycin (PAA Laboratories, Germany) and 1% (v/v) NEAA. For differentiation, 50 ng ml −1  recombinant M-CSF (R&D Systems, Germany) or GM-CSF (Leukine®, Genzyme Corporation, UK) were added to the dishes. After 3 days medium was changed and growth factors were freshly added. On day 7 cells were detached by rinsing with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; PAA Laboratories, Germany) and seeded at 2×10 5  cells cm −2  into 24 well plates (BD Biosciences, Germany) unless stated otherwise. Prior to experiments, cells were grown over night in antibiotic-free medium containing growth factors. To minimize donor-dependent variations, in all experiments both GM-Mφ and M-Mφ were generated from the same donor. All experiments were performed in triplicates with cells from the same donor and at least three donors were tested.
L50:Human macrophages were generated from primary human monocytes following positive or negative immunomagnetic selection and differentiated for 7 days in the presence of either GM-CSF (GM-Mφ) or M-CSF (M-Mφ). Additionally, the human cell line THP-1, which upon PMA-stimulation shows a macrophage-like phenotype  [29] , was used for comparison. All cells were analysed for expression of the classical surface markers mannose receptor (CD206) and scavenger receptor (CD163)  [18]  by flow cytometry. GM-Mφ displayed a CD14 + CD163 − CD206 high  phenotype and M-Mφ were CD14 + CD163 high CD206 low  irrespective of the method used for monocyte isolation (Fig. 1A and B). No significant difference in mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of CD206 on GM-Mφ or CD163 on M-Mφ was observed ( Fig. 1C ). Expression of CD163 and CD206 was specifically induced upon  ex vivo  differentiation since these markers were not expressed on primary monocytes directly after isolation ( Fig. S1 ). THP-1 macrophage-like cells displayed CD14 surface expression but did not express CD163 or CD206 and these markers could not be induced by additional stimulation with PMA alone or in combination with GM-CSF or M-CSF ( Fig. 2 ).
L52:Figure 2 Surface expression of CD14, CD163 and CD206 on untreated THP-1 cells (mock) or after differentiation into macrophage-like cells by stimulation with PMA alone (PMA) or in combination with 50 ng ml −1  M-CSF (M+PMA) or GM-CSF (GM+PMA). All experiments were performed in triplicates (n = 3). Histogram plots show surface marker staining as hatched areas and isotype controls as black lines.
L73:Ex vivo  differentiation of primary human blood monocytes represents a good model to study interactions of pathogens with human macrophages  [14] ,  [31] ,  [33] . In line with previous studies  [14] ,  [15] ,  [18] ,  [33] ,  ex vivo  differentiated macrophages showed either high surface expression of CD163 (M-Mφ) or CD206 (GM-Mφ) regardless of the method used to isolate monocytes. Treatment with PMA alone or in combination with M- or GM-CSF did not induce expression of these markers on THP-1 cells. This is in agreement with a previous report in which CD206 could not be induced on THP-1 cells by PMA treatment  [29] .
L79:On monocytes and macrophages CD14 is bound to the membrane via a glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor but lacks intracellular domains  [41] . Thus, activation of phagocytosis, as well as other downstream responses, by CD14 ligation probably involves other adaptor molecules. In mice, CD14 was shown to cooperate with TLR2 for efficient clearance of  Lm  infections  [42] . Also, CD14 has been shown to interact with complement receptor 3 to mediate phagocytosis of  Borrelia burgdorferi  by murine bone marrow-derived macrophages in a process independent of TLR2  [43] . Further studies will be required to identify the signalling cascade activated in human macrophages upon CD14 ligation and the regulatory mechanisms leading to increased phagocytosis of  Lm .
L80:Based on our results we propose macrophages differentiated  ex vivo  from primary monocytes isolated by negative selection as the best model to study interaction of  Lm  with human macrophages. The use of primary human cells excludes any species-specific biases of murine macrophages. GM- and M-CSF are important mediators of macrophage differentiation. GM-CSF is abundantly expressed at sites of inflammation resulting in recruitment of circulating monocytes and their differentiation into pro-inflammatory Mφ. By contrast, high levels of M-CSF result in an anti-inflammatory phenotype  [8] . Thus the use of  ex vivo  differentiated GM-Mφ or M-Mφ allows the investigation of  Lm  infections in macrophages of different phenotypes. With respect to  Lm  infection, M-Mφ might be of particular relevance since they share phenotypic and functional properties of resident macrophages in the intestinal mucosa  [44] , which is the primary site of  Lm  infection.
L112:12 Lacey DC ,  Achuthan A ,  Fleetwood AJ ,  Dinh H ,  Roiniotis J ,  et al  ( 2012 )  Defining GM-CSF- and macrophage-CSF-dependent macrophage responses by in vitro models .  J Immunol
