L7:Macrophages (Mϕ) are the major source of inflammatory cytokines and are target cells for dengue virus (DV) replication. However, Mϕ are heterogeneous and their phenotypic and functional diversities are influenced by cytokines that regulate their differentiation, tissue distribution, and defense against invading pathogens.  In vitro , human primary macrophages are derived from peripheral blood CD14 +  monocytes in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) or granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). These are essential for developing tissue/resting macrophages (M-Mϕ) and inflammatory macrophages (GM-Mϕ), respectively. While IFN production is similar between M-Mϕ and GM-Mϕ, M-Mϕ cannot produce IL-1β after DV infection. In contrast, GM-Mϕ is more susceptible to DV infection and DV triggers CLEC5A in GM-Mϕ to activate NLRP3 inflammasomes, which in turn release IL-18 and IL-1β that are critical for Th17 activation and contribute to disease severity. Thus, GM-Mϕ is more representative than M-Mϕ for investigating inflammasome activation in dengue infection, and is invaluable for revealing the molecular mechanism of pathogen-induced inflammatory reaction. Distinct phenotypes of macrophage subsets under the influence of M-CSF and GM-CSF raise the question of optimal conditions for culturing primary macrophages to study host-pathogen interaction.
L13:Macrophages (Mϕ) are thought to originate from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) during development and reside in various tissues such as Kupffer cells in the liver, microglia in the brain, alveolar macrophage in the lungs, osteoclast in the bone, and in lymph nodes and other tissues. Tissue macrophages play a broad role in maintaining tissue homeostasis via clearance of senescent cells and tissue remodeling and repair. While macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) has been applied to induce monocyte differentiation into macrophages for host-pathogen interaction, recent studies reveal that granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is influential in skewing macrophage differentiation into distinct phenotypes. Hamilton [ 4 ] proposed that a constant M-CSF level is necessary to keep the Mϕ population in a resting and homeostatic situation (M-Mϕ or resting macrophage), while local GM-CSF elevation during infection triggers Mϕ into an inflammatory condition (GM-Mϕ or inflammatory macrophage).
L17:To address this important issue, cytokines optimal for macrophage differentiation is discussed and the current strategy of using human M-CSF to drive monocyte differentiation  in vitro  models to study host-pathogen interaction is re-visited.
L19:Macrophages can differentiate from either hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC) or circulating monocytes, and display distinct phenotypes in host-pathogen interaction and the resolution of inflammatory reactions. Various cytokines and stimulatory signals are involved in the process. Monocytes differentiate into resting or inflammatory macrophages under the influence of M-CSF and GM-CSF, respectively [ 9 ], or into M1 and M2 by interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and IL-4 priming, respectively [ 10 - 12 ]. Stimulation of macrophage subsets by pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), or distinct resolution signal like IL-10, TGF-β and glucocorticoids, determine the consequence of host immune responses [ 12 , 13 ].
L21:Role of M-CSF and GM-CSF in macrophage differentiation
L22:The M-CSF controls the primary regulator of mononuclear phagocyte production  in vivo  and plays an essential role in the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and maturation of the macrophage myeloid lineage [ 14 ]. Mutation of M-CSF results in profound macrophage deficiency [ 15 , 16 ] similar to that observed in M-CSF receptor knock-out mice [ 17 ]. In contrast, disturbed hematopoiesis and deficient macrophages are not observed in GM-CSF knockout mice, even though GM-CSF-deficient mice develop abnormal lungs, including peri-brochovascular lymphocyte infiltration and surfactant accumulation in the alveoli. Moreover, opportunistic bacterial and fungal infections in lung tissue are the significant features of GM-CSF-deficient mice [ 18 ]. The GM-CSF −/−  mice is less able to control influenza virus infection than WT mice, and GM-CSF over-expression in lung epithelial cells in GM-CSF −/−  mice enhance mice survival after influenza virus infection [ 19 ]. This suggests that GM-CSF is necessary for host defense against pathogen invasion, while M-CSF is essential for driving monocyte differentiation into macrophage  in vivo .
L23:The M-CSF circulates at detectable levels in a steady state (<60 μg/animal) in normal healthy individuals. It is constitutively produced  in vitro  by several cell types, including fibroblasts, endothelial cells, stromal cells, macrophages, smooth muscle cells, and osteoblasts [ 20 ]. On the other hand, GM-CSF expression is spatially regulated and dramatically up-regulated at inflammation or infection sites [ 4 ], suggesting that macrophage differentiation during inflammatory reactions is under the influence of GM-CSF, which causes a massive increase in the macrophage population of the spleen and liver to induce hepato-splenomegaly [ 21 ]. Thus, the basal level of M-CSF is required to maintain the homeostasis of tissue macrophage through M-CSF signaling, while the local and temporal increase in GM-CSF, which inhibits M-CSF signaling during inflammation, polarizes monocytes to differentiate into inflammatory Mϕ during the inflammatory reaction and shift back to resting macrophages after the infection-induced inflammation is removed [ 4 ].
L26:Recently, Fleetwood et al. compared the different responses of murine bone marrow-derived macrophages subsets GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ to LPS stimulation. After LPS stimulation, GM-BMϕ preferentially produced TNF-α, IL-6, IL-12p70, and IL-23 whereas, while M-BMϕ generated more IL-10 and CCL2 under similar conditions. Interestingly, phenotypes of GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ adopt the phenotype of other populations if pre-treated with M-CSF and GM-CSF, respectively. This indicates the plasticity of GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ by M-CSF and GM-CSF, and further supports the argument that GM-BMϕ may be the dominant macrophage subset during the inflammatory reaction [ 23 ].
L27:In addition to GM-CSF, type I IFN has crucial regulatory function in M-BMϕ and GM-BMϕ. Compared to GM-BMϕ, M-BMϕ constitutively express higher levels of IFN-β to enhance type I IFN signaling-dependent gene expression, including  Ccl5 ,  Ccl12 ,  Irf7 ,  Stat1 ,  Stat2  and  Cxcl10 . The autocrine type I IFN signaling in GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ differentially regulates the production of M1 and M2 cytokines after LPS stimulation. These results indicate that endogenous and LPS-induced type I IFNs participate in regulating the phenotype and functions of M-BMϕ and GM-BMϕ [ 24 ].
L58:M-CSF: Macrophage colony-stimulating factor; GM-CSF: Granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor; DF: Dengue fever; DHF: Dengue hemorrhagic fever; DSS: Dengue shock syndrome; HSCs: Hematopoietic stem cells; TLR: Toll-like receptor; RLR: Retinoid acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptors; CLR: C-type lectin receptor; MR: Mannose receptor; DC-SIGN: Dendritic Cell-Specific Intercellular adhesion molecule-3-Grabbing Non-integrin; RIG-I: Retinoic acid inducible gene-I; MDA5: Melanoma differentiation-associated antigen 5; AIM2: Absent in melanoma 2; MAVS: Mitochondrial anti-viral signaling protein; ASC: Apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD; NLR: Nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat; PYHIN: Pyrin and HIN domain containing; NLRP: NLR family PYD-containing protein; NLRC: NLR family CARD-containing protein; NLRX1: NLR family member X1; DAP12: DNAX-activating protein 12; TNF-α: Tumor necrosis factor; IL-1β: Interleukin-1 beta; IFNβ: Interferon beta; IFN-γ: Interferon-gamma; PAMPs: Pathogen-associated molecular patterns; DAMPs: Damage-associated molecular patterns; Th1: T-helper type 1; LPS: Lipopolysaccharides; CCL5: (Chemokine [C-C motif] ligand 5; CXCL10: C-X-C motif chemokine 10; TGF-β: Transforming growth factor beta; IP-10: Interferon gamma-induced protein 10; MCP-1: Monocyte chemotactic protein-1; NF-κB: Nuclear factor-κB; HSV-1: Herpes simplex virus 1; KSHV: Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus; MV: Measles virus; CPV: Cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus.
L80:Wiktor-Jedrzejczak W Ratajczak MZ Ptasznik A Sell KW Ahmed-Ansari A Ostertag W CSF-1 deficiency in the op/op mouse has differential effects on macrophage populations and differentiation stages Exp Hematol 1992 20 1004 1010 1505635
L83:Sever-Chroneos Z Murthy A Davis J Florence JM Kurdowska A Krupa A Tichelaar JW White MR Hartshorn KL Kobzik L GM-CSF modulates pulmonary resistance to influenza A infection Antiviral Res 2011 92 319 328 10.1016/j.antiviral.2011.08.022 21925209
L84:Fixe P Lorgeot V Le Meur Y Coupey L Heymann D Godard A Praloran V Development of enzymo-immunoassays (EIA) for macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) by using the same capture and signal generating polyclonal antibody Cytokine 1996 8 586 591 10.1006/cyto.1996.0078 8891440
L85:Krakowski M Abdelmalik R Mocnik L Krahl T Sarvetnick N Granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) recruits immune cells to the pancreas and delays STZ-induced diabetes J Pathol 2002 196 103 112 10.1002/path.1013 11748649
L88:Fleetwood AJ Dinh H Cook AD Hertzog PJ Hamilton JA GM-CSF- and M-CSF-dependent macrophage phenotypes display differential dependence on type I interferon signaling J Leukoc Biol 2009 86 411 421 10.1189/jlb.1108702 19406830
L89:Lacey DC Achuthan A Fleetwood AJ Dinh H Roiniotis J Scholz GM Chang MW Beckman SK Cook AD Hamilton JA Defining GM-CSF- and macrophage-CSF-dependent macrophage responses by in vitro models J Immunol 2012 188 5752 5765 10.4049/jimmunol.1103426 22547697
