L1:Characterization of murine macrophages from bone marrow, spleen and peritoneum
L8:Macrophages have heterogeneous phenotypes and complex functions within both innate and adaptive immune responses. To date, most experimental studies have been performed on macrophages derived from bone marrow, spleen and peritoneum. However, differences among macrophages from these particular sources remain unclear. In this study, the features of murine macrophages from bone marrow, spleen and peritoneum were compared.
L10:We found that peritoneal macrophages (PMs) appear to be more mature than bone marrow derived macrophages (BMs) and splenic macrophages (SPMs) based on their morphology and surface molecular characteristics. BMs showed the strongest capacity for both proliferation and phagocytosis among the three populations of macrophage. Under resting conditions, SPMs maintained high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines expression (IL-6, IL-12 and TNF-α), whereas BMs produced high levels of suppressive cytokines (IL-10 and TGF-β). However, SPMs activated with LPS not only maintained higher levels of (IL-6, IL-12 and TNF-α) than BMs or PMs, but also maintained higher levels of IL-10 and TGF-β.
L14:Macrophage; Bone marrow; Spleen; Peritoneum
L17:Macrophages are distributed in all tissues and organs after birth. The distribution patterns of macrophages have been shown by labeling the colony-stimulated factor 1 receptor (Csf1r) promoter with green fluorescent protein (GFP) [ 2 ] or by specific F4/80 antibody (Ab) staining of macrophages [ 3 ]. It has been found that distinctive morphological differences within and among macrophage populations could be attributed to their heterogeneity [ 4 ]. The heterogeneity of macrophages may be important for their diverse and flexible participation in immune responses. Therefore, it is important to examine the phenotypic and functional differences amongst macrophages from different origins, such as spleen, bone marrow and peritoneum.
L20:Another source for commonly used macrophages is the bone marrow. The growth of bone marrow macrophages (BM) requires macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). In the past, studies of macrophages have had a bias towards macrophages derived from one specific organ. For instance, BMs have been commonly used due to their homogeneity, ability to be transfected, proliferation capacity and longer lifespan. However, the application of BMs in experimental studies also has difficulty due to the instability of their phenotype and functions in vivo [ 17 ]. BMs are relatively flexible in their response to modification; for example, their proliferation can be regulated by changing the concentration of growth factor M-CSF [ 18 ].
L21:For those reasons, it is important to define differences among macrophages derived from spleen, bone marrow and peritoneal cavity. The aim of this study was to explore differences in morphology, phenotype, proliferation, phagocytosis, antigen presentation and cytokine expression of murine SPMs, BMs and PMs.
L25:Figure 1 Morphological characteristics of cultured macrophages derived from spleen (A, D), bone marrow (B, E) and peritoneal cavity (C, F), and their cell size assessment (G).  All cells were cultured in complete RPMI1640 on 6-well plates, and after removal of supernatant, cells were then stained with Giemsa-wright dye  (A, B, C)  and to demonstrate lysosome, anti-LAMP1  (D, E, F)  (original magnification x400). Cell size was assessed by flow cytometry analysis  (G).
L32:The proliferative capability of SPMs, BMs and PMs was assessed. Under culture with 2 ng/ml M-CSF (Figure  3 A), BMs showed a much stronger proliferative capability than SPMs and PMs. BM numbers increased from day 4, and continued until to day14 when there was a 60 fold increase over baseline. However, SPMs showed less proliferation with only a 7 fold increase. In contrast, there was no proliferation in PMs during the 14 day culture (Figure  3 B).
L33:Figure 3 Macrophage growth rate treated with different M-CSF concentrations.  BM, SPM and PM were cultured with M-CSF in concentrations of 2 ng/ml  (A)  or 10 ng/ml  (B)  for 0, 4, 7 and 14 days. The numbers of macrophages were quantified. Images are representative of 3 separate experiments. Data are mean ± SEM. * p  < 0.05, ** p  < 0.01.
L34:In response to 10 ng/ml of M-CSF (Figure  3 B), the proliferation of the three macrophage populations showed similar patterns to those with 2 ng/ml M-CSF. The proliferation of BMs and SPMs was much greater than that in low concentration M-CSF (Figure  3 B). However, an increase of M-CSF concentration up to 10 ng/ml did not enhance proliferation capability of PMs.
L39:SPMs, BMs and PMs were analyzed for their ability to present OVA antigen to OVA-specific DO11.10 CD4+ T cells by [3H]-thymidine incorporation assay. DCs generated from bone marrow were used as positive control. Each of these types of macrophage exhibited a much lower OVA-specific antigen presenting ability than DCs, and there was no significant difference in the ability of presenting OVA-specific antigen among the three types of macrophage (Figure  5 ).
L45:Macrophages have heterogeneous phenotypes and complex functions within both innate and adaptive immune responses [ 19 ]. To date, most experimental studies have been performed on BMs, isolated SPMs and PMs [ 1 ]. However, differences among macrophages from these particular sources remain unclear. In this study, the features of macrophages from spleen, bone marrow and peritoneal cavity were compared. We found that PMs appear to be more mature than SPMs and BMs, based on their morphology and surface molecular characterizatics. BMs showed the strongest capacity in both proliferation and phagocytosis among the three populations of macrophage; under resting conditions, SPMs maintained high level pro-inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-12 and TNF-α), whereas, BMs had high level expression of suppressive cytokines (IL-10 and TGF-β); after LPS activation, SPMs expressed relatively high levels of all those cytokines.
L46:In macrophage studies, macrophage cell lines including J774A.1, RAW264.7, P388D1 and U937 [ 20 , 21 ] can be used, however, continuous subculture of these cell lines may cause gene loss and impair macrophage immune functions. Therefore, macrophages from bone marrow, spleen and peritoneum in primary culture are more commonly used. To date, macrophage studies have been performed and validated extensively using BMs [ 22 - 24 ], but less so with SPMs and PMs. Unlike macrophages obtained directly from spleen and peritoneum, BMs can be fully differentiated  in vitro  from macrophage dendritic cell precursors [ 25 ]. Although there are many advantages in using BMs in immunological studies, such as their high yield, homogeneity and long lifespan [ 23 ], the features of BM macrophages are not fully characterized. Morphological changes of macrophages from three sources were examined to compare their maturation. Consistent with the previous studies [ 26 ], there are some similarities among SPMs, BMs and PMs with regard to their sphere and deeply stained nuclei, but SPMs and PMs contained much more cytoplasm than BMs, suggesting that BMs may be less mature then SPMs and PMs. When comparing cytoplasm of SPMs with PMs, PMs exhibited a larger size and lysosomal content than SPMs, suggesting that PMs may be more mature than SPMs. In addition to morphological analysis, surface molecular expression could also be used, at least in part, to indicate the maturity of the three populations. A study from Alatery showed that both SPMs and BMs were not fully mature and needed to undergo a further maturation  in vitro  in culture [ 26 ]. Our study detected surface molecular expression that related to macrophage maturation and function. PMs had high level MHC II and CD86 expression, whereas BMs had high level CD115 and GR-1 expression. MHC II and CD86 are expressed highly on fully functional macrophages, which also indicates their maturity [ 27 , 28 ]. CD115 and Gr1 are usually expressed on precursors of monocytes and macrophages, indicating that the cells are less differentiated and more immature [ 29 ]. Therefore, our study showed that PMs appear to be the most mature macrophage, followed by SPMs, then BMs. These differences are likely important considerations in the experimental use of macrophages from different sources.
L47:Following great technical improvements in the  in vitro  generation of macrophages, they are now considered as candidates for cell therapy [ 17 , 30 - 32 ]. Currently, there is a much variation in the preparation of macrophages from different sources for therapeutic use. A recent study of muscle regeneration demonstrated the therapeutic potential of macrophages derived from bone marrow [ 33 ]. However, both the experimental and clinical use of regulatory macrophages (M2) for treating central nervous system injury relied on generation of macrophages from peripheral blood. Previously we have demonstrated the therapeutic efficacy of M2 macrophages derived from spleen, but not bone marrow, to resolve inflammation and repair the kidney injury [ 34 - 37 ]. We have shown a similar efficacy of M2 macrophages derived from peritoneum as from spleen (unpublished data). This demonstrates the importance of the origin of macrophages used for treating disease. In this present study, the proliferative, phagocytotic and antigen presenting ability of BMs, SPMs, and PMs were assessed. It was found that BMs exhibited the strongest proliferative capability among the three populations, with SPMs demonstrating slight and PMs no proliferative capability, suggesting that macrophages derived from spleen and peritoneum might be more functionally and phenotypically stable. This observation is consistent with our previous report that M2 macrophage generated from bone marrow rather than spleen showed strong proliferation  in vivo  and failed to protect against renal disease, apparently due to the loss of function and phenotype of macrophages linked to their proliferation ability [ 35 ]. In addition to proliferative ability, phagocytotic capacity of macrophages was assessed. BMs have been shown to maintain the highest capability of phagocytosis [ 38 , 39 ], which was confirmed in our study and may be an important consideration in regards to their therapeutic efficacy.
L50:Comparison of cytokine expression profile of SPMs, BMs and PMs might contribute to the understanding of their distinct properties and provide a valuable reference for further macrophage related studies. The significantly higher expression of TGF-β and IL-10 by resting BMs in comparison to SPMs and PMs suggests that  in vitro  generated BMs might be potentially more likely to have a M2 phenotype. M-CSF has been shown to induce differentiation of BMs from bone marrow progenitors [ 45 ] and also to induce human macrophages into a M2 phenotype [ 46 ]. Compared to an only 1 day  in vitro  incubation time of SPMs and PMs, the requirement of 7 days stimulation of bone marrow cells with M-CSF may push them towards M2 differentiation. Combined with high proliferation and phagocytosis ability of BM, thus suggests that BMs might be less mature and phenotypically stable than SPMs and PMs, giving caution to the use of BMs in cell therapy. Alternatively, pro-inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, IL-12 and TNF-α were significantly more highly expressed on SPMs with and without activation than BMs or PMs, which may be relevant to the specific microenvironment of spleen. In spleen, SPMs play an important role in removal of red cells, which may require SPMs to produce abundant cytotoxicity-associated cytokines such as IL-12, TNF-α and IL-6 [ 47 , 48 ]. Therefore, cytokine expression of BMs, SPMs and PMs reflect their biological function.
L52:In summary, we report a side-by-side comparison study of macrophages derived from spleen, bone marrow and peritoneum. This study demonstrates their distinct characteristics which are likely relevant to their respective roles in immune response. It also provides a powerful reference for choosing macrophages of specific origins not only for experimental study but also for therapeutic use.
L57:Mice were sacrificed by CO 2  inhalation. Spleens were dissected from abdominal cavity and filtered through a 40-μm nylon strainer. Red cell lysis buffer was used to remove red cells. A single splenic cell suspension then was obtained. FACS sorting was performed to obtain F4/80 positive and CD11c negative cells; then the harvested cells (0.5-1x10 6 ) were cultured for 24 hours with complete RPMI1640 supplemented with 10% FBS, 2 mM L-glutamine, 50 U/ml penicillin, 50 μg/ml streptomycin, 10 mM HEPES (N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N’-2-ethanesulfoinc acid) and 0.1 mM nonessential amino acids (all from Life Technologies) and 10 ng/ml M-CSF (R&D Systems) in 6-well plates (BD Bioscience), at 37°C. For macrophage activation, cells were stimulated with 100 ng/ml LPS (Sigma) for 24 hours. The cells were harvested by trypsin (0.5%) (Invitrogen).
L58:Pelvic and femoral bones were dissected; and all the remaining tissue on the bones was removed. Each bone end was cut off, and bone marrow was expelled. Cells from bone marrow were cultured for 7 days with 10 ng/ml M-CSF; medium was changed every two days. Adherent cells were detached by trypsin (0.5%) digestion. FACS sorting (BD Bioscience) was performed to obtain F4/80 positive and CD11c negative cells; then the harvested cells (0.5-1×10 6 ) were cultured for 24 hours in complete RPMI1640 with 10% FBS in 6-well plates, at 37°C. For macrophage activation, cells were stimulated with 100ng/ml LPS (Sigma) for 24 hours. The cells were harvested by trypsin (0.5%).
L60:To obtain dendritic cells, cells from bone marrow were cultured for 7 days with 10 ng/ml GM-CSF and 10 ng/ml IL-4; medium was changed every two days. Floating cells were removed by PBS washing, adherent cells were considered as DCs.
L68:Macrophages derived from spleen, bone marrow and peritoneal cavity were purified. Then, purified macrophages were cultured in separate 6-well plates at the concentration of 1 × 10 4  cells per well. Medium used was complete RPMI 1640 with M-CSF in two concentrations (10 ng/ml and 2 ng/ml). Medium was changed every two days. The cell number was measured by counting under microscope, on days 4, 7 and 14.
L106:Weischenfeldt J Porse B Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages (BMM): Isolation and Applications CSH Protoc 2008 2008 pdb prot5080 21356739
L107:Marim FM Silveira TN Lima DS Jr Zamboni DS A method for generation of bone marrow-derived macrophages from cryopreserved mouse bone marrow cells PLoS One 2010 5 e15263 10.1371/journal.pone.0015263 21179419
L118:Cao Q Zheng D Sun Y Wang Y Lee VW Zheng G Alexander SI Harris DC Impaired alternative activated macrophages from bone marrow in treatment of CKD: Associations with their proliferation in inflamed kidney. Presented in abstract form at the annual meeting of the American Society of Nephrology; October 27 through November 1, 2009 CA: San Diego
L128:Warren MK Vogel SN Bone marrow-derived macrophages: development and regulation of differentiation markers by colony-stimulating factor and interferons J Immunol 1985 134 982 989 2578168
L129:Xu W Schlagwein N Roos A van den Berg TK Daha MR van Kooten C Human peritoneal macrophages show functional characteristics of M-CSF-driven anti-inflammatory type 2 macrophages Eur J Immunol 2007 37 1594 1599 10.1002/eji.200737042 17474153
