L15:We analyzed the transcriptional signatures of mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages at different times after infection with promastigotes of the protozoan parasite  Leishmania major . Ingenuity Pathway Analysis revealed that the macrophage metabolic pathways including carbohydrate and lipid metabolisms were among the most altered pathways at later time points of infection. Indeed,  L. major  promastiogtes induced increased mRNA levels of the glucose transporter and almost all of the genes associated with glycolysis and lactate dehydrogenase, suggesting a shift to anaerobic glycolysis. On the other hand,  L. major  promastigotes enhanced the expression of scavenger receptors involved in the uptake of Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL), inhibited the expression of genes coding for proteins regulating cholesterol efflux, and induced the synthesis of triacylglycerides. These data suggested that  Leishmania  infection disturbs cholesterol and triglycerides homeostasis and may lead to cholesterol accumulation and foam cell formation. Using Filipin and Bodipy staining, we showed cholesterol and triglycerides accumulation in infected macrophages. Moreover, Bodipy-positive lipid droplets accumulated in close proximity to parasitophorous vacuoles, suggesting that intracellular  L. major  may take advantage of these organelles as high-energy substrate sources. While the effect of infection on cholesterol accumulation and lipid droplet formation was independent on parasite development, our data indicate that anaerobic glycolysis is actively induced by  L. major  during the establishment of infection.
L24:BALB/c mice (Elevage Janvier) were killed and hind legs removed for bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDM) isolation. Briefly, femurs and tibias were flushed with RPMI 1640 using a 25-gauge needle. Contaminating erythrocytes were lysed through the addition of Gey lysis solution (ammonium chloride 1.5M, EDTA 0.1 mM, pH 7.3). All cells were incubated in T75 culture flasks at 1.5 10 6  cell per ml in RPMI 1640 media supplemented with 5 mM L-glutamine, 10% heat inactivated foetal calf serum, penicillin (100 U/ml) and streptomycin (100 µg/ml) and 80 ng/ml M-CSF (Peprotech, Neuilly sur Seine, France) overnight for stromal cell elimination. Non-adherent, immature macrophages were transferred to fresh culture-treated Petri dishes (Nunc, USA) and grown for 7 days, with re-feeding on day 3, to induce macrophage differentiation. Generated macrophages were assessed by flow cytometry for expression of F4/80 (around 90% were positive).
L28:BMdM were incubated at a parasite to cell ratio of approximately 10∶1 with Ficoll purified metacyclic promastigotes of  L. major . After the desired time of incubation at 37°C in 5% CO2, non-ingested parasites were removed and the cells were harvested to prepare samples. Standard Giemsa staining was used to determine the percentage of infected cells and to insure for homogenate cell infection under the different conditions.
L31:Cell intensity files were generated with GeneChipOperating Software (GCOS). Each infection and control time points were performed on three different samples, using different preparations of BMdMs, and processed independently to give three biological replicates.
L56:To investigate the temporal response of macrophages following infection with  L. major  promastigotes, a time course was performed during which RNA was extracted from BMdM infected for 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 h with live or heat-inactivated promastigotes. GeneChip Mouse Gene 1.0 ST arrays were used to analyse global changes in gene transcripts to generate a pool of genes that was statistically significant (p-value<0.05) and a fold change cut-off of 1.5 in at least one of the five infected samples versus non-infected samples. Of the 18 899 genes represented on the array, our analysis of mRNA expression in mouse BMdM infected by live parasites showed that a total of 782 genes were expressed differentially over the time course while only 375 genes were differentially modulated by macrophages infected by heat-inactivated promastigotes. The relative expression of 83 selected differentially expressed genes from the microarray data was further examined by RT-qPCR on the same samples that those analyzed by microarray analysis. The data from RT-qPCR analysis ( Table S3 ) is consistent with the results obtained by microarrays, albeit with magnitudes different from, and often higher than, those recorded by the microarray analysis.
L58:Figure 1 Hierarchical clustering of genes differentially expressed in  Leishmania major  infected BALB/c macrophages. Five distinct clusters were identified by hierarchical clustering analysis using dChip software. Two clusters represent genes that were significantly down-regulated (cluster 1) and up-regulated (cluster 3) over the time course. The second (cluster 2), contains genes that start to be up-regulated from 6 to 24 hours after infection Two other clusters contain genes up-regulated during the early hours (1,3 and 6 hrs) of infection (cluster 4) and at 6, 12 and 24 hrs (cluster 5). Each row represents a spot on the microarray and each column a separate microarray. BMdM response was studied at five different time points (from the left to the right: P-T1h, P-T3h, P-T6h, P-T12h and P-T24h). The left-hand column show non-infected cells (NI) that were used as internal control.
L73:Figure 4 Free cholesterol accumulation in  Leishmania major  infected macrophages. BMdM were infected by  Leishmania major  promastigotes at different time points. Cells were fixed by formaldehyde, stained by Filipin for free cholesterol accumulation and visualized by Epifluorescence microscopy. The results are representative of two independent experiments. Only the results obtained 24 h post-infection is shown here. Similar results were observed for the other infection time point. B) Representative linescans (Metamorph software) of infected and non-infected cells that allow to quantify intensity differences in Filipin staining.
L74:Leishmania  infection also modulates the transcription of genes implicated in lipid metabolism. Indeed, expression of the genes encoding the stearoyl-CoA desaturases 2 (Scd), that catalyzes the conversion of stearoyl-CoA to oleoyl-CoA and thereby regulates the ratio of monounsaturated to saturated fatty acids was enhanced following  L. major  infection (up to 2.9) ( Table S2 ). In addition to this important enzyme in the biosynthesis of fatty acids (FA), the mRNA levels for two other enzymes, the long chain fatty acid CoA ligase (Acsl1) (up to 2.47) (responsible for associating long-chain free fatty acids with coenzyme A) and the Fatty acid–binding protein 4 (FABP4) (up to 3.2), (that binds long-chain fatty acids and controls the cellular localisation of FAs) showed a sustained increase. Finally, transcription of the genes encoding three enzymes, namely the 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 5 (Agapt5) that catalyses the formation of phosphatidic acid, the lipid phosphate phosphohydrolase 3 (Ppap2b), and the Diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (Dgat2), that catalyzes the conversion of diacylglycerol to triglycerides, was significantly enhanced in infected cells. As the formation of lipid droplets (LD) is highly linked to the biosynthesis of triglycerides, we investigated the role of infection on triglyceride accumulation and lipid-droplet formation in  Leishmania  infected BMdM. Using the fluorescent neutral lipid dye Bodipy, we observed a rapid (1 hour) accumulation of LD in  L. major -infected cells ( Figure 5A ). This accumulation did not occur randomly, since in most cases, Bodipy-positives LD were present in close association with the parasitophorous vacuole ( Figure 5B ).
L75:Figure 5 Leishmania major  infection induces lipid droplet accumulation. BALB/c BMdM cells were infected by  Leishmania major  promastigotes at different time points. Cells were fixed by formaldehyde, stained by Bodipy493/503 for lipid droplet accumulation and visualized by confocal microscopy. A) Bodipy accumulation in  Leishmania  infected Macrophages. Only the results obtained one hour and twenty four hours after infection are shown here. Similar results were observed for the other infection time points. B) Lipid accumulation in close association with the parasitophorus vacuole. The results are representative of four independent experiments.
L79:In an attempt to highlight the cellular pathways actively regulated by the parasite, we used heat-inactivated  L. major  promastigotes as control. Compared to live promastigotes, killed parasites induced the expression of fewer genes. Only 375 genes were differentially expressed when macrophages internalized killed parasites. Of those, 241 genes were induced in both live and killed promastigote-infected BMdM. These include immune response genes such as chemokines, oxidative stress, but also metabolic pathway genes. The genes that were differentially regulated upon infection with  Leishmania  and which belong to the pathways analyzed upward, were subjected to hierarchical clustering analysis using DNA Chip Analyzer (dChip) software ( Figure 7A and 7B ). This clustering showed that infection of BMdM with either live or killed promastigotes resulted in similar transcriptomic profile for the genes implicated in the immune response and lipid metabolism. This result supports the hypothesis that the capacity to induce immune response, cholesterol accumulation and LD formation is independent of  Leishmania  viability. By contrast, internalization of heat-inactivated promastigotes clearly did not result in the expression of genes encoding glycolytic enzymes, suggesting that the activation and the shift to anaerobic glycolysis is actively regulated by the parasite ( Figure 7B ). These results have been confirmed by qPCR.
L85:Once the parasites get into the cells and start to multiply, the host cells seem to adapt their metabolism to face the infection. The microarray data indicated that  Leishmania  infection result in an enhanced rate of glycolysis but with reduced glucose flux through tricarboxylic acid cycle. The requirement to regenerate NAD +  to maintain glycolysis (i.e., conversion of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate to 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate) is accomplished by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)-catalyzed reduction of pyruvate to lactate. Thus, infected macrophages would tend to convert glucose into lactate even in the presence of sufficient oxygen to support mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Moreover, the down-regulation of a number of genes implicated in the TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation suggests that increased glycolysis may be the mechanism  L. major  relies on for energy production. Interestingly, expression of the glycolytic enzymes encoding genes, including LDH and PDK, was not induced when heat-killed promastigotes were used to infect BMdM, suggesting that  L. major  promastigotes actively induce macrophages to shift their metabolism to anaerobic glycolysis. Up-regulation of host glycolytic transcripts has been reported for macrophages infected by  Toxoplasma gondii 
L86: [19]  and was shown to correlate with the activation of the HIF-1α transcription factor  [20] . On the other hand, expression of HIF-1α has been observed in the cutaneous lesions of  L. amazonensis  infected BALB/c mice  [21] . Stabilization of HIF1α in response to  Leishmania  infection may explain this increasing flux through the glycolytic pathway, the conversion of pyruvate to lactate and the suppression of the TCA cycle, and the oxidative phosphorylation observed in infected BMdM. Whether the effect of  Leishmania  on this metabolic pathway relies on HIF-1α activation is currently under investigation.
L93: [34] . Moreover, a recent study revealed that cytoplasmic LDs are translocated across the inclusion membrane into the lumen of the parasitophorous vacuole (PV) in  Chlamydia  infected cells  [35] . A similar mechanism of lipid acquisition by  Leishmania  may exist that allows the parasite to take advantage of this high-energy source. From another point of view, accumulation of LD may be implicated in the cross-presentation of antigens derived from PVs containing live parasites. Indeed, accumulation of lipid bodies has been reported to be required for normal and efficient cross-presentation of OVA-coated latex beads by dendritic cells  [36] . Interestingly, expression of a member of the IRG gene family (Irgm3) that has recently been implicated in this pathway was induced in  Leishmania -infected BMdM. Both live and heat-inactivated  Leishmania  promastigotes induce the transcription of the same set of genes involved in the intracellular cholesterol accumulation and foam cell formation in bone marrow-derived macrophages suggesting that the development of the parasite is not required. Accumulation of cholesterol and formation of lipids bodies may be achieved through the stimulation of different receptors such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs) that have been implicated in the recognition and control of  Leishmania  parasites  [37] ,  [38] ,  [39] . Indeed, a recent study revealed that TLR stimulation impairs macrophage cellular cholesterol efflux  in vivo 
L104:  infected BMdM as measured by array data.  Results are expressed as Log 2  of the fold change (Log 2 (FC)). The numbers presented for each time point are the average of the three biological replicates. When the modulation of mRNA level is not statistically significant, the Log 2 (FC) was denoted 0. (PDF)
L107:  infected BMdM as measured by qRT-PCR.  Genes selected in Table S2 were tested by qRT-PCR. Changes in mRNA levels are calculated using the 2 −ΔΔ CT  method. The numbers presented for each time point are the average of the three biological replicates. (PDF)
L380:Table S2 : Selected genes up- or down-regulated more than two-fold in Leishmania infected BMdM as measured by array data
L438:Table S3 : selected genes up- or down-regulated more than two-fold in Leishmania infected BMdM as confirmed by qPCR
