L9:Macrophages play a key role in tissue homeostasis as well as in a range of pathological conditions including atherosclerosis, cancer, and autoimmunity. Many aspects of their in vivo behavior are, however, poorly understood. Bioluminescence imaging (BLI) with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and firefly luciferase (FLUC) labelled autologous reporter macrophages could potentially offer a powerful tool to study macrophage biology, but this approach has been hindered by the relative difficulty of efficient gene transfer into primary macrophages. Here we describe a straightforward method for producing large numbers of GFP/FLUC expressing mouse primary macrophages utilizing lentivirus vector, cyclosporine, and a double infection strategy. Using this method we achieved up to 60% of macrophages to express GFP with correspondingly high FLUC signal. When injected into the circulation using a mouse model of local biomaterial induced inflammation and osteolysis, macrophages were initially detectable within the lungs, followed by systemic homing to the local area of chronic inflammation in the distal femur. In addition, transduced macrophages maintained their ability to assume M1 and M2 phenotypes although the GFP/FLUC expression was altered by the polarizing signals. These reporter macrophages could prove to be valuable tools to study the role of macrophages in health and disease.
L16:Isolation and culture of mouse bone marrow macrophages
L17:Mouse bone marrow macrophages (mBMMs) were collected from the femora and tibiae of 40 male BALB/cByJ mice (The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME) aged 6 to 8 weeks using established protocols [ 7 ,  8 ]. For comparison mBMMs were isolated also from one male, 5-weeks-old, L2G85 BALB/c mouse harboring CAG-luc-eGFP L2G85 transgene (The Jackson Laboratory, stock number 010545). The mice were euthanized with CO 2  followed by cervical dislocation, sterilized in 70% ethanol for 2 x 5 min after which femora and tibiae were collected under aseptic conditions. The proximal and distal ends of the bones were transversally cut and the bone marrow was flushed out by injecting 5 ml of Gibco RPMI 1640 (Life Technologies) medium supplemented with 10% heat inactivated Gibco FBS (Life Technologies) and 1% Gibco Antibiotic- Antimycotic (Life Technologies) into the medullary canal with a syringe and 25-gauge needle. The cells were filtered through a 100 μm cell strainer and centrifuged. Cells were suspended in ice cold red blood cell lysis buffer (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) and after 2 min media was added to stop the cell lysis. Cells were centrifuged again and resuspended in complete mBMM culture media comprising of RPMI 1640 with 10% FBS, 30% L929 cell-conditioned medium, 10 ng/mL macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF, R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN) and 1% Gibco Antibiotic- Antimycotic (Life Technologies). Cells were counted and plated into 175 cm 2  culture flasks (BD, Franklin Lakes, NJ), 5 x 10 7  cells per flask. Cells were cultured for 6 days during which the media was changed on days 2 and 4 to remove non-adherent cells. After reaching confluence cells were lifted with Gibco 0.25% Trypsin-EDTA (Life Technologies) and gentle scraping, centrifuged and split 1:2 either into 175 cm 2  culture flasks or 10 cm diameter cell culture dishes. After subculture, mBMMs were allowed to recover and expand for 5 days and reach 50 to 70% confluence prior to lentivirus infection.
L18:mBMMs transduction
L19:The supernatant from transfected 293T cells was mixed with complete mBMM culture media at an approximate ratio of 2:1 and was further supplemented with 6 μg/ml polybrene (Sigma-Aldrich), 10 μg/ml sterile filtered DEAE-dextran (Sigma-Aldrich) or 10 μM cyclosporine (Sigma-Aldrich). To achieve a MOI of 10, 6 ml of this infection media was used for macrophages in 10 cm dishes and 15 ml for the cells in 175 cm 2  culture flasks. After 24 hours infection media was removed and complete mBMM media added. The cells were allowed to recover for 24 hours after which the infection was repeated in selected groups (single or double infection). Three days after the second infection the GFP expression was determined by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. The FLUC activity was determined using a Luciferase Assay System kit (Promega, Madison, WI) and a Turner BioSystems Luminometer TD-20/20 (Promega). The FLUC activity was normalized to the amount of total protein measured using a Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit (Thermo Scientific). The viability of the reporter macrophages was assessed three days after the second infection by flow cytometry and propidium iodide staining
L25:The  in vivo  performance of GFP and FLUC expressing reporter macrophages was assessed in a mouse model of biomaterial wear debris induced local inflammation and osteolysis [ 10 – 12 ]. The study was carried out in strict accordance with the recommendations in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals of the National Institutes of Health. The protocol was approved by the Administrative Panel on Laboratory Animal Care (APLAC) at Stanford University (Protocol Number: 17566). Briefly, Alzet model 2006 miniature osmotic pumps (Durect Corporation, Cupertino, CA) were loaded with ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene particles (mean diameter 0.48 ± 0.10 μm) suspended in 1% BSA-PBS at a concentration of 15 mg/ml. Pumps were connected to hollow titanium rods (0.82 mm x 6 mm) via 6 cm long vinyl tubing prefilled with the particle solution. A skin incision was made to the lateral side of the right hip or flank region of 10, male, 8 to 12 weeks old BALB/cByJ mice under isoflurane anesthesia. The joint capsule of the right knee was opened by a lateral parapatellar arthrotomy to access the intercondylar notch of the distal femur after which a series of needles was used to drill through the notch to gain access to the medullary cavity. The pump with the tubing was then implanted in the subcutaneous tissues in the back of the mice via a second skin incision made to the dorsal side of the neck. A subcutaneous tunnel reaching the right knee was made for the tubing. The titanium rod, connected from the one end to the pump via tubing, was then press fit into the drill hole in right distal femur resulting in a continuous delivery of UHMWPE particles to the medullary cavity with accompanied chronic inflammation and local osteolysis. Skin incisions were closed with 5–0 Ethilon sutures. Repeated s.c. buprenorphine injections were used in the postoperative analgesia.
L27:Seven days after the operation, 6x10 6  M0 reporter macrophages suspended in 150μl of HBSS were injected into the tail vein of the mice and the systemic trafficking of the reporter cells was observed by obtaining lateral and prone BLI images of the mice immediately after the cell injection and then at 2 day intervals up to 20 days post injection using IVIS 100 system (Xenogen, Alameda, CA). Ten minutes prior to imaging mice received 3 μg intraperitoneal injection of D-luciferin (Biosynth, Staad, Switzerland). The BLI images were quantified by measuring the total flux (photons/second) from uniformly sized regions of interest (ROI) drawn over the right and left distal femur using Living Image (V 4.1. Perking Elmer, Waltham, MA) image analysis software.
L29:21 days after the systemic injection of reporter macrophages, the mice were euthanized with CO 2  followed by cervical dislocation. The right and left femurs of three representative mice were dissected free of soft tissues, fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde for 3 days, decalcified in 0.5M ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid PBS for 2 weeks and then embedded in OCT compound for sectioning. The distal metaphyseal region of the right femur representing the area of biomaterial inflammation and the corresponding anatomical area of left control femur were sectioned into 8μm thick frozen sections in the transverse plane and the reporter macrophages detected in three 10 to 20 μm spaced sections by firefly luciferase immunostaining. For the immunostaining tissue sections were permeabilized in 0.1% Triton-X PBS for 15 min and washed in PBS 3x5min. Endogenous peroxidase activity in the sections was blocked by 10 minute treatment in Bloxall (Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA), followed by a wash in PBS for 5 min, and blocking in 10% goat normal serum (Vector Laboratories) containing added Avidin from Avidin/Biotin Blocking Kit (Vector Laboratories) in 1% BSA-PBS for 1 hour at room temperature. Normal serum was then decanted, sections briefly rinsed, and polyclonal rabbit anti-firefly luciferase antibody, 5μg/ml, diluted in 1% BSA-PBS (ab21176, Abcam, Cambridge, MA) applied to the sections with added biotin from the Avidin/Biotin Blocking Kit. After an overnight incubation at +4°C the sections were washed 3x5min in PBS and incubated in biotinylated goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody (Vector Laboratories) diluted 1/200 in 1% BSA-PBS for 1 hour at room temperature. Sections were washed again 3x5min in PBS and incubated with AB complex from Vectastain ABC kit (Vector Laboratories) for 1 hour at room temperature. After 3x5min washes in PBS the sections were treated with ImmPACT NovaRED peroxidase substrate (Vector Laboratories) for 10 min to visualize the sites of antibody binding and counterstained with hematoxylin. Sections were dehydrated in graded ethanol series, cleared in xylene and mounted with VectaMount (Vector Laboratories). The amount of positive cells was compared between the left and right femurs. Specify of the immunostaining was confirmed by including negative staining controls performed without the addition of the primary antibody. The specificity of the immunostaining was further confirmed by staining GFP-FLUC transduced (positive control) and non-transduced (negative control) RAW 264.7 cells (TIB-71, ATCC, Manassas, VA) using the same fixation and firefly luciferase immunstaining protocol as for the tissue sections.
L35:Fig 1 GFP expression in reporter macrophages. GFP and FLUC expressing reporter macrophages were produced by transducing mouse bone marrow macrophages with lentivirus vector in the presence of cyclosporine, DEAE-dextran or polybrene. The 24-hour virus infection was done either once or repeated after a 24-hour rest period (single vs. double infection).  a)  Fluorescence microscopy images of the GFP positive macrophages in the indicated treatment groups three days after the second infection.  b)  Representative scatter blots of GFP positive reporter macrophage in flow cytometry.  c)  Percentage of GFP positive macrophages in the indicated treatment groups as determined by flow cytometry. Cy–Cyclosporine; De–DEAE-dextran; Po–Polybrene; D–Double infection; S–Single infection; *** = p > 0.001 cyclosporine double infection vs. dextran and polybrene single and double infection; * = p > 0.05 cyclosporine double vs. single infection; + = p > 0.05 cyclosporine single infection vs. dextran and polybrene single and double infection.
L38:Fig 2 FLUC expression in reporter macrophages. GFP and FLUC expressing reporter macrophages were produced by transducing mouse bone marrow macrophages with lentivirus vector in the presence of cyclosporine, DEAE-dextran or polybrene. The 24-hour virus infection was done either once or repeated after a 24-hour rest period (single vs. double infection).  a)  Reporter macrophages from the indicated treatment groups were seeded to 24-well plate at standardized density three days after the second infection. D-luciferin was added to the wells and immediately after luminescence signal emanating from each well imaged using IVIS 100 system and quantified with Living Image software.  b)  Luciferase activity in indicated double infected reporter macrophage lysates as determined by Luciferase Assay System kit and luminometer.  c)  Person correlation between the amount of GFP positive cells and normalized FLUC activity in macrophages infected once or twice in the presence of cyclosporine. D–Double infection; S–Single infection; Cy–Cyclosporine; De–DEAE-dextran; Po–Polybrene. * = p > 0.05 cyclosporine double infection vs. polybrene double infection.
L39:Table 1 Reporter macrophage viability. GFP and FLUC expressing reporter macrophages were produced by transducing mouse bone marrow macrophages with lentivirus vector in the presence of cyclosporine, DEAE-dextran or polybrene. The 24-hour virus infection was done either once or repeated after a 24-hour rest period (single vs. double infection). The percentage of viable cells was assessed three days after the second infection by flow cytometry and propidium iodide staining.
L41:Only small portion of mBMMs isolated from the transgenic L2G85 BALB/c mouse expressed GFP (1.07% in L2G85 macrophages vs. 54.9% in cyclosporine double infection group) with correspondingly weak FLUC activity (0.02 x10 4  in L2G85 macrophages vs. 2.4 x10 4  in cyclosporine double infection group).
L49:Immediately after injection into the mouse circulation, a strong BLI signal emanating from the area corresponding to the lungs was detected. No difference in the signal from right and left femur was observed at this stage, although the initial strong signal from the lungs was reflected to these regions of interest as evident from very high initial flux from both of these ROIs (left 4.1 ± 1.8 x10 5  vs. right 5.5 ± 1.7 x10 5  p/s, not significant). Starting from day 2 post-injection, BLI signal developed over the right distal femur significantly exceeding the signal from the left femur. Although steadily decreasing, the significantly increased signal from the right femur compared to the left femur persisted over the 20-day imaging period ( Fig 5A and 5B ). In histological sections of left and right femurs obtained at day 21 after the cell injection and stained for FLUC, clear accumulations of FLUC positive cells were evident in the bone marrow surrounding the channel left behind by the implanted titanium rod while only few such cells were seen on the left femur ( Fig 6A and 6B ). No non-specific staining was observed in the negative staining controls. The GFP-FLUC transduced RAW 264.7 cells stained for FLUC showed positive signal while no signal was detected in the non-transduced cells further confirming the specificity of the FLUC immunostaining ( Fig 6C ).
L50:Fig 5 Reporter macrophages in in vivo bioluminescence imaging. Lentivirus and cyclosporine transduced reporter macrophages where injected into the tail vein of mouse model of biomaterial induced local inflammation and osteolysis. The cell trafficking was followed by bioluminescence imaging. Luminescence emanating from the local area of inflammation in the right distal femur as well as left distal femur serving as a control was determined from images obtained every other day up to 20 days post injection.  a)  Bioluminescence images showing the accumulation of reporter cells to the right distal femur starting on the day 2 after the systemic injection of the reporter cells and persisting over the 20 day imaging period.  b)  XY-blot showing the total flux from regions of interest over the right and left distal femurs. * = p > 0.05; ** = p > 0.01, *** = p > 0.001.
L51:Fig 6 Detection of reporter macrophages from tissue sections. Lentivirus and cyclosporine transduced reporter macrophages where injected into the tail vein of mouse model of biomaterial induced local inflammation and osteolysis. Reporter cell accumulation to the right distal femur was confirmed by bioluminescence imaging. After 21 days the right and left femur were collected, processed into frozen sections and the reporter macrophages detected by FLUC immunostaining.  a)  Low power micrographs showing the transverse sections of distal metaphyseal region of left and right femur. On the right side the channel left behind by the titanium rod is evident (asterisk).  b)  High power micrographs showing several aggregations of FLUC positive cells (arrow heads) in the bone marrow surrounding the rod channel on the right side while only few FLUC positive cells are detected in the bone marrow of the left femur.  c)  GFP-FLUC transduced and non-transduced RAW 264.7 cells stained for FLUC served as additional positive and negative immunostaining controls. Scale bars 200μm.
L54:Indeed, some approaches to this end have already been developed. GFP/FLUC expressing mouse macrophage cell lines are relatively easy to produce using standard transduction methods and have been used to study macrophage trafficking in immunocompromised mice [ 11 ,  12 ]. However, the use of cell lines for this application has limitations including the non-autologous cell transfer necessitating the use of immunocompromised mice, the malignant nature of the cells eventually resulting in  tumor formation  leukemia and, presumably, less physiological behavior of cell lines compared to primary cells. Production of FLUC transgenic mouse models followed by isolation of primary macrophages from these mice for autologous reporter cell transfer is a potentially powerful approach to the problem. Indeed, high expression of GFP/FLUC in the mBMMs from transgenic FVB mice has been reported [ 14 – 16 ]. However, we detected only minimal expression of GFP/FLUC in mBMMs isolated from commercially available transgenic L2G85 BALB/c mouse suggesting that the expression of these reporter genes is dissimilar between transgenic mouse strains. This strain-dependent reporter gene expression along with the time consuming process of backcrossing the GFP/FLUC reporter gene into new mouse strains potentially required to meet the needs of each specific research application limit the usefulness of this otherwise elegant technique. In addition to FLUC transgenic mice, various mice strains with strong GFP expression in their mononuclear cells have been reported in the literature and thus fluorescence based in vivo BLI offers an alternative to the current approach [ 17 ,  18 ]. However, in an attempt to maximize the sensitivity of the reporter cell system for longitudinal in vivo imaging, we chose to develop FLUC based BLI due to the good tissue penetration and high signal-to-noise ratio typically achieved with this technique.
L60:After injection into the mouse circulation, the M0 reporter macrophages were easily detectable in the lungs immediately after the injection, using bioluminescence imaging. Migration of the labelled reporter macrophages to the site of chronic inflammation at the right distal femur was observed starting at day 2 after the cell injection confirming the in vivo functionality of the reporter cells. Although decreasing steadily, the signal from the lungs and the right distal femur persisted and was clearly detectable up to 20 days post injection indicating reasonably long life span for these cells. Indeed using immunohistochemistry it was possible to detect several aggregations of FLUC positive cells in the histological sections of the inflammatory area of right femur obtained at day 21 post-injection. Corresponding to the BLI results only few FLUC positive cells were seen in the left control femurs. Similar homing of FLUC expressing RAW 264.7 cells to the area of inflammation and osteolysis in the same mouse model has been previously described [ 11 ,  12 ].
L81:7 Weischenfeldt J ,  Porse B .  Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages (BMM): Isolation and Applications .  CSH Protoc .  2008 ; 2008 :pdb.prot5080.
