L1:Differences in Cell-Intrinsic Inflammatory Programs of Yolk Sac and Bone Marrow Macrophages
L17:Background: Tissue-resident macrophages have mixed developmental origins. They derive in variable extent from yolk sac (YS) hematopoiesis during embryonic development. Bone marrow (BM) hematopoietic progenitors give rise to tissue macrophages in postnatal life, and their contribution increases upon organ injury. Since the phenotype and functions of macrophages are modulated by the tissue of residence, the impact of their origin and developmental paths has remained incompletely understood. Methods: In order to decipher cell-intrinsic macrophage programs, we immortalized hematopoietic progenitors from YS and BM using conditional HoxB8, and carried out an in-depth functional and molecular analysis of differentiated macrophages. Results: While YS and BM macrophages demonstrate close similarities in terms of cellular growth, differentiation, cell death susceptibility and phagocytic properties, they display differences in cell metabolism, expression of inflammatory markers and inflammasome activation. Reduced abundance of PYCARD (ASC) and CASPASE-1 proteins in YS macrophages abrogated interleukin-1β production in response to canonical and non-canonical inflammasome activation. Conclusions: Macrophage ontogeny is associated with distinct cellular programs and immune response. Our findings contribute to the understanding of the regulation and programming of macrophage functions.
L21:Macrophages are key effectors of innate immunity. They contribute to organ functions, the maintenance of tissue homeostasis and defense against pathogenic invasion [ 1 ]. In order to fulfill organ-specific functions, resident macrophages adopt distinct properties, e.g., clearance of surfactant by alveolar macrophages or breakdown of bone tissue by osteoclasts [ 2 ]. These functions are largely imprinted by the tissue environment. Consequently, adoptive transfer of mature macrophages between organ compartments results in their rapid molecular and phenotypic adaptation to the new microenvironment [ 3 , 4 ]. Despite the strong impact of the local milieu on macrophage identity, significant heterogeneity can be observed between individual macrophages inside the same tissue [ 5 ]. This heterogeneity might be explained in part by different developmental origins of macrophage populations. Except for microglia in the central nervous system, which are solely derived from yolk sac (YS) hematopoiesis in early life, macrophages in mouse tissues are derived in part from embryonic hematopoiesis as well as from definitive hematopoiesis of the bone marrow (BM) [ 4 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 ]. The impact of ontogeny on the cellular identity of macrophages remains unclear.
L26:2.2. Generation of Yolk Sac and Bone Marrow Derived ER-Hoxb8 Progenitors
L34:BM ER-Hoxb8 progenitor cells and 5 × 10 5  YS were seeded per 10 cm tissue culture dish in 5 ml of differentiation medium (RPMI 1640 with 10% FCS (BIO-SELL S0615), 1% penicillin–streptomycin (Sigma P 4333), 30 μM 2-Mercapto-Ethanol (Sigma M3148) and supernatant containing 6% SCF or FLT3, respectively, and 10 ng/mL M-CSF (Immuno Tools 12343115, Friesoythe, Germany)) at 37 °C/5% CO 2 . Cell culture medium was changed every second day till the intended experiments were performed. Bright field images during the process of differentiation were collected with a Zeiss (Jena, Germany) Axiovert 200, Axiocam HRC microscope. Cells were counted every day at the same time for 6 days, and doubling time was calculated.
L46:For analysis of in vivo survival and differentiation, intraperitoneal injection of 107 YS Hoxb8 cells was performed. Cells were pre-differentiated with M-CSF (Immuno Tools 12343115) for three days with M-CSF (as described above) prior to injection. Cell suspension was applied in 400 µL sterile PBS with a 27 G needle after prewarming by hand. After one week, the mice were euthanized by cervical dislocation and cells were recovered by peritoneal lavage using 10 mL ice cold PBS with 3% FCS and prepared for subsequent FACS analysis.
L73:In order to compare YS and BM derived macrophages independently of their local environment, we isolated hematopoietic progenitors from embryonic day (E) 9.5 YS and BM of 8–12-week-old mice. Cells were transduced with an estrogen-regulated Hoxb8 (ER-Hoxb8), allowing their maintenance and expansion at the progenitor level [ 11 , 15 ]. Upon estrogen removal, both cell lines differentiated to mature macrophages in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) ( Figure 1 a).
L77:Next, we compared cell growth and differentiation between YS and BM Hoxb8 cells. Proliferation was similar in both populations with doubling times of approximately 16 h ( Figure 1 e). Upon estrogen withdrawal, YS- and BM-derived Hoxb8 progenitors differentiated in a similar fashion, reaching mature macrophage morphology around day 5 ( Figure 1 f). This typical cell morphology was also apparent with May–Grünwald–Giemsa stainings and characteristic for the mature phenotype in both cell types ( Figure 1 g). Markers of early progenitor states, namely, Kit and Runx1, were downregulated in BM and YS Hoxb8 macrophages during maturation. In contrast, markers of macrophage differentiation, such as Lyz2, Csf1r and Cx3cr1, were upregulated in both populations ( Figure 1 d). Analogue expression patterns for KI67, as well as leukocyte (CD45), myeloid (CD11b) and macrophage (F4/80, CSF1R) markers, were confirmed at the protein level by immunofluorescence and flow cytometry ( Figure 1 h,i and  Figure 2 b).
L80:After 5–6 days of progenitor differentiation in the presence of M-CSF, macrophages represented the most prominent cell populations in YS- as well as BM-derived Hoxb8 cells ( Figure 2 a,b). Surface expression of immune cell markers increased with differentiation, as indicated by median fluorescence intensities ( Supplementary Figure S1 ). A small population of floating and loosely adhering cells represented undifferentiated progenitor cells, as well as a minor proportion of neutrophils characterized by LY6G expression. However, medium exchange and simple washing allowed the removal of these cells before macrophage harvest ( Figure 2 a). Next, we aimed to determine whether Hoxb8 macrophage progenitors differentiate in vivo. We generated CD45.2 YS Hoxb8 cells and transferred them into the peritoneal cavity of CD45.1 mice (male recipients) ( Figure 2 c–e). Progenitors differentiated into mature macrophages under physiological conditions in vivo within one week, as indicated by surface expression of F4/80. While YS Hoxb8 progenitors almost exclusively generated macrophages, BM Hoxb8 progenitors produced a larger fraction (approximately 25%) of neutrophils ( Figure 2 d,e), indicating differences in macrophage lineage commitment.
L84:In contrast, YS-derived Hoxb8 macrophages expressed higher RNA levels of  clusterin  (apolipoprotein J), which has been associated with apoptotic cell clearance and matrix reorganization. These processes are linked to tissues homoeostasis, a common function of M2-like macrophages [ 23 , 24 ]. Similarly, the transcription factor  Mafb , which is known to promote anti-inflammatory polarization and cholesterol efflux, was upregulated in YS-derived Hoxb8 macrophages [ 25 ]. The triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 ( Trem2 ) has recently been identified as a marker for macrophage subpopulations of potential YS origin. At the protein level, clusterin has been shown to act as a binding partner of TREM2 and is significantly expressed in brain microglia, which are exclusively of YS origin [ 26 , 27 , 28 ]. In line with this, we identified the upregulation of Sal-like proteins (SALL) 1 and 3, which have been linked to microglia development [ 29 ]. Microtubule-associated tumor suppressor candidate 2 ( Mtus2 ) is among the most upregulated genes in YS Hoxb8 macrophages ( Figure 3 c) and has recently been identified as a binary protein interaction partner of M-CSF [ 30 ]. We further investigated RNA expression levels after stimulation with either IL4 or LPS under standardized in vitro conditions. Cell-type specific differences between YS and BM macrophages in top regulated genes were in part independent of cytokine stimulation, such as expression of  Ctsz  and  Irak3  ( Figure 3 d,e;  Supplementary Figures S3 and S4 ). This supports the role of cell-intrinsic macrophage programs.
L92:First, we studied the response of Hoxb8 macrophages to LPS and IL4 in a multiplex cytokine analysis. Interestingly, cytokine release was similar between YS and BM macrophages ( Figure 4 c). The increased abundance of PYCARD, an important adaptor protein associated with inflammasome function, at both the RNA and protein level, drove us to further investigate this pathway in YS and BM macrophages. Cytosolic pattern recognition receptors activate the inflammasome through the canonical pathway leading to caspase-1 activation with subsequent release of IL1β, IL18 and Gasdermin D. To investigate canonical activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome pathway, we primed Hoxb8 macrophages with LPS and stimulated them with crystals [ 34 ]. Both cholesterol (CH) and monosodium urate (MSU) crystals induced the release of IL1β from LPS-primed BM macrophages ( Figure 4 d–g). As expected, IL1β secretion was absent in caspase 1/11-deficient BM macrophages, indicating a dependence on caspase activation in this pathway ( Figure 4 e). Notably, IL1β secretion from LPS-primed crystal-stimulated YS Hoxb8 macrophages was low, indicating a low level of inflammasome activation ( Figure 4 d–g). We confirmed our findings by protein expression analyses and determined a pronounced inflammasome response upon MSU crystal stimulation in BM Hoxb8 macrophages. In contrast, relative abundance of PYCARD and CASP1 protein was low in YS macrophages ( Figure 4 f,g;  Supplementary Figure S8 ). Up to this point, we carried out deep phenotyping and functional assessment in YS and BM macrophages derived from Hoxb8-SCF progenitors. We next determined whether macrophages differentiated from Hoxb8-FL progenitors provided similar inflammasome responses. We generated three independent clones each from mouse BM and E9.5 YS, and differentiated them into mature macrophages in the presence of M-CSF, as performed for Hoxb8-SCF cells. LPS-primed BM macrophages provided a strong release of IL1β following MSU stimulation whereas the inflammasome response of YS Hoxb8-FL macrophages was again minimal ( Supplementary Figure S9 ). These findings support the notion that the differences in intrinsic cellular programs between YS and BM macrophages are robust and remain detectable across different versions of the Hoxb8 protocol to conditionally immortalize hematopoietic progenitors.
