L6:Tissue-resident macrophages (Mø) originating from foetal precursors are maintained by self-renewal under tissue/organ-specific microenvironments (niches). We recently developed a simple propagation method applicable to tissue-resident Mø by co-culturing. Here, we examined the properties of lung tissue-resident Mø propagated by co-culturing with lung interstitial cells. The intracardially and intratracheally perfused lung from BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice could minimise the contamination of alveolar Mø and lung monocytes. Lung tissue-resident Mø could be largely propagated under standard culture media along with the propagation of lung interstitial cells demonstrating a fibroblastic morphology. Propagated lung Mø showed characteristic expression properties for Mø/monocyte markers: high expressions of CD11b, CD64 and CD206; substantial expressions of Mertk; and negative expressions of Ly6C, MHC II and Siglec-F. These properties fit with those of lung interstitial Mø of a certain population that can undergo self-renewal. Propagated fibroblastic cells by co-culturing with lung Mø possessed niche properties such as  Csf1  and  Tgfb1  expression. Propagated lung Mø from both the mouse types were polarised to an M2 phenotype highly expressing arginase 1 without M2 inducer treatment, whereas the M1 inducers significantly increased the iNOS-positive cell percentages in C57BL/6 mice relative to those in BALB/c mice. This is the first study to demonstrate fundamental properties of lung tissue-resident Mø propagated by co-culturing. Propagated lung Mø showing features of lung interstitial Mø can serve as an indispensable tool for investigating SARS-CoV-2 diseases, although lung interstitial Mø have gained little attention in terms of their involvement in SARS-CoV-2 disease pathology, in contrast to alveolar and recruited Mø.
L10:Macrophages (Mø) are multifunctional cells that are indispensable for the development and regeneration of tissues/organs. They also assist in the removal of pathogens invading the body. Mø reside in various tissues/organs as heterogeneous populations demonstrating tissue/organ-specific functions. Majorly, two types of Mø function in adults: (1) tissue-resident Mø, which colonise tissues/organs at a steady state and perform tissue/organ-specific functions to maintain the tissue/organ homeostasis, and (2) recruited Mø, which originate from bone marrow-derived monocytes that circulate in the blood and infiltrate lesions in response to damage of the tissues/organs. Previously, all tissue-resident Mø in adults were considered to originate from the bone marrow-derived monocytes that undergo tissue/organ-specific differentiation. However, based on the recently accumulated evidence, majority of the tissue-resident Mø in adults are believed to originate from foetal Mø in the yolk sac and/or foetal monocytes in the foetal liver. These foetal precursors migrate to diverse tissues/organs during embryonic development, colonise in tissue/organ-specific microenvironments (niches), and then undergo tissue/organ-specific differentiation into tissue-resident Mø as well as persist into adulthood through self-maintenance of the local proliferation processes in a steady state, independent of any input from bone marrow-derived monocytes [ 1 , 2 , 3 ]. In contrast, it has been reaffirmed that tissue-resident Mø that colonise the interstitial tissues of several tissues/organs such as intestines and dermis are terminally differentiated cells that do not proliferate locally in the colonising tissues in a steady state and are gradually replaced by blood monocyte-derived Mø [ 4 , 5 ]. Thus, we speculated that tissue-resident Mø originating from foetal precursors can proliferate in vitro under suitable conditions. Guilliams et al. recently proposed that tissue-resident Mø that receive nourishment under suitable niches possess self-renewal properties and can undergo tissue/organ-specific differentiation [ 6 , 7 ]. Therefore, we hypothesised that tissue-resident Mø that originated from foetal precursors in a certain organ could be propagated alongside the propagation of niche-forming cells residing in the respective organ. We then accordingly and successfully developed a simple propagation method of tissue-resident Mø by co-culturing with the respective tissue/organ-residing cells. This method can be commonly applied to tissue-resident Mø such as the brain, liver, spleen and lung [ 8 ]. Mø from bone-marrow-derived monocytes and monocyte/Mø cell lines have been widely applied for in vitro studies on Mø in general. Ex vivo methods have also been primarily applied for the study of tissue-resident Mø. Thus, the co-culture method has opened possibilities to use several types of tissue-resident Mø for diverse research applications in vitro similar to those for the currently used adult monocyte-derived Mø.
L26:Total RNA was isolated from alveolar Mø, propagated lung tissue-resident Mø, and lung interstitial cells with the TRI Reagent (TR118, Molecular Research Centre, Inc., Cincinnati, OH, USA), and RT-PCR analysis was performed as described elsewhere [ 21 ]. Briefly, 1 µg of total RNA was transcribed into the first-strand cDNA using M-MLV reverse transcriptase, RNase H −  (316-08151, Nippon Gene, Toyama, Japan) and an oligo (dT) 18  primer, according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The niche-dependent transcription factors providing resident tissue-specific identities have been revealed in representative tissue-resident Mø (BACH2, CEBPβ, PPARγ, alveolar Mø; DTX4, RUNX3, intestinal Mø; ID3, LXRα, SPIC, Kupffer cells; ID2, RUNX3, Langerhans cells; SALL1, SMAD2, SMAD3, microglia; CEBPβ, GATA6, peritoneal Mø; BACH1, SPIC, red pulp Mø) [ 22 , 23 ]. Therefore, we examined the mRNA expressions of these transcription factors as well as the lineage-determining transcription factor PU.1 in propagated tissue-resident Mø by co-culturing with lung interstitial cells as well as alveolar Mø, including in the bronchoalveolar lavage, to determine the properties of the propagated Mø. To examine the expression patterns of these molecules, 0.5 µL of the 25-µL reaction mixture was amplified with Taq DNA polymerase (TaKaRa Ex Taq HS, RR006A; TaKaRa Bio Inc., Otsu, Japan) using the reverse-transcribed cDNA as the template. The primer pairs and the thermal cycling conditions used for PCR amplification in this study are illustrated in  Supplemental Tables S1 and S2 . The RT reaction was omitted for negative controls. The PCR products were separated on 1.5% agarose gels and visualised by ethidium bromide staining. We also examined the mRNA expressions of CSF1, CSF2 and IL34 as growth factors of Mø as well as TGFβ1 in lung interstitial cells propagated by co-culturing with lung tissue-resident Mø as well as TGFβ1 and TGFβR2 in propagated lung Mø and alveolar Mø.
L34:Lung tissue-resident Mø were propagated by co-coculturing with interstitial cells from the mouse lung after clearing the alveolar cells through bronchoalveolar lavage. The propagation behaviours of the tissue-resident Mø by co-coculturing were similar between BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice: Mø showed high propagation in DMEM-FBS without any additional growth factors for Mø, such as CSF-1. By changing the culture media every 3–4 days, primary lung interstitial cells, including Mø, generally reached over-confluence within 2 weeks ( Figure 1 A,B). The over-confluent cells formed a multi-layered structure on a standard tissue-culture dish. The cells were then subcultured at a dilution ratio of 1:3 until reaching over-confluence again, which occurred within a similar period ( Figure 1 C–F). Alveolar epithelial cells were not engrafted/cultivated in the tissue-culture dish with the standard culture medium, because no clear cell masses that showed epithelial structures such as a cobblestone formation appeared in the co-culture after the first passage. Mø and interstitial cells in the co-culture were subcultured for more than four passages propagation and became over-confluent as observed for the co-cultured primary cells, and the over-confluent cells within 1–2 passages were usually used for expression analyses. The over-confluent co-cultured cells were frozen at a dilution ratio of 1:3 and then thawed, and the cultured frozen cells were treated to the same cultivating condition. The frozen cells were found to propagate similar to that by the unfrozen cells. Mø could be morphologically identified as small cells in the co-cultured lung interstitial cells, specifically, small flat cells with a few vacuoles, thin elongated cells with a few cytoplasmic protrusions, and small round or fusiform cells ( Figure 1 C,D).
L42:Tissue-resident Mø maintains their population through self-renewal under the tissue/organ-specific niche producing specific cytokines/growth factors, i.e., CSF-1, CSF-2 and IL34 [ 5 , 22 , 23 ]. Past reports have shown that CSF-2 and TGFβ1 are indispensable to self-maintain in alveolar Mø [ 9 ] and that TGFβ1 is essential for the maintenance of alveolar Mø and the regulation of alveolar Mø in an autocrine manner [ 26 ]. Thus, we examined the mRNA expression of these cytokines/growth factors in lung fibroblastic cells as well as that of TGFβ1 and TGFβR2 in propagated lung Mø and alveolar Mø. We found that the lung fibroblastic cells propagated by co-culture could clearly express  Csf-1 ,  Il34  and  Tgfb1  mRNA in both BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice, but faintly expressed  Csf-2  mRNA additionally in BALB/c mice ( Figure 3 B); both the propagated lung Mø and alveolar Mø could clearly express  Tgfb1  and  Tgfbr2  mRNA in both BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice ( Figure 3 C). These findings demonstrate that the expression patterns of the cytokines/growth factors in lung fibroblastic cells were similar between the two mouse types, except for the  Csf-2  expression only in those of BALB/c; the expression patterns of the growth factor/growth factor receptor were similar between the propagated lung Mø and alveolar Mø and between the BALB/c and C57BL/6 mouse types.
L53:We found that (1) the propagated lung Mø by co-culturing mostly contacted with lung fibroblastic cells; (2) the lung Mø after the isolation from the lung fibroblastic cells did not substantially propagate in the standard culture medium; (3) the lung Mø propagating in vitro substantially expressed CD115, the receptor for CSF1; (4) the lung fibroblastic cells from both BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice expressed  Csf1  clearly and  Il34  substantially, both of which induce the proliferation of several tissue-resident Mø [ 5 , 22 , 23 ]. These findings suggest that lung fibroblastic cells propagated by co-culture could act as the niche nursing lung interstitial Mø in vitro. If this presumption is correct, lung fibroblastic cells propagated by co-culturing may be a good tool to reveal the niche nursing lung interstitial Mø of the CD206-positive population. It is thus accepted that the development, maturation and self-maintenance of tissue-resident Mø derived from the foetal precursor are critically regulated by niche signals [ 22 , 23 ]; these niche signals in alveolar Mø are triggered by CSF2 as well as TGFß1, which act in an autocrine manner in alveolar Mø [ 9 , 26 ]. Moreover, niche-signal-dependent critical transcription factors have been determined in representative tissue-resident Mø [ 22 , 23 ]. Here, we demonstrated the  Tgfb1  expression in propagated lung Mø and fibroblastic cells as well as the  Tgfbr2  expression in propagated lung Mø. Our findings suggest that the TGF signal in an autocrine manner can possibly function in lung interstitial Mø, likely in alveolar Mø. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, there are no studies showing a TFGß−TFGßR paracrine/autocrine signalling pathway between lung interstitial Mø and their niche-forming cells. Further studies are required to determine whether the TFGß1−TFGßR2 paracrine/autocrine signalling pathways shape the resident/specific properties of lung interstitial Mø. We also showed that the expression patterns of the transcription factors were quite similar between the propagated lung Mø and alveolar Mø, except for a few transcription factors, including  Pparg,  which critically characterises the properties of alveolar Mø [ 27 ], as was clearly expressed only in alveolar Mø. These observations also suggest a similarity between the two Mø, thus indicating that propagated lung Mø may be available as a substitute for alveolar Mø when PPARγ can be introduced in propagated lung Mø. Moreover, to our knowledge, there are no studies on niche-dependent transcription factors providing resident tissue-specific identities in lung interstitial Mø. Thus, further studies are required to determine which transcription factors expressed in propagated lung interstitial Mø or others shape the resident/specific properties of lung interstitial Mø.
L57:Lung tissue-resident Mø of BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice could be propagated in large numbers under standard culture media along with the propagation of lung stromal cells demonstrating fibroblastic morphology ( Figure 9 ). The propagated lung Mø by co-culturing demonstrated characteristic expression patterns for Mø/monocyte markers: high expressions of CD11b, CD64 and CD206; substantial expressions of Mertk; and negative expressions of Ly6C, MHC II and Siglec-F. These expression properties quite fit with those of lung interstitial Mø of a certain population with the property of self-renewal. The propagated lung Mø from both the mouse types were polarised to an M2 phenotype that highly expressed arginase 1 without treatment of the M2 inducer, whereas the M1 inducers could significantly increase the percentages of iNOS-positive cells in C57BL/6 mice when compared to those in BALB/c mice. Moreover, the propagated fibroblastic cells by co-culturing with lung tissue-resident Mø possessed the properties of niche such as the expressions of  Csf1  and  Tgfb1 . This is the first study to demonstrate the fundamental properties of lung tissue-resident Mø propagated by co-culturing. We, therefore, expect that the lung tissue-resident Mø possesses a high ability of propagation when co-cultured with lung fibroblastic cells, demonstrating features that are almost identical to those of lung interstitial Mø for use in diverse applications for lung diseases, including SARS-CoV-2 disease.
L60:Figure 3 RT-PCR amplification of the transcription factors,  Tgfb1  and  Tgfbr2  in propagated lung tissue-resident Mø and alveolar Mø as well as that of the Mø growth factor mRNAs and  Tgfb1  in lung fibroblastic cells propagated by co-culturing in BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. ( A ): The expression patterns of 15 transcription factors in generating resident tissue/organ-specific identities of the representative tissue-resident Mø in the propagated lung tissue-resident Mø (plMø) and alveolar Mø (AMø). The expression patterns are almost the same in plMø and AMø between the two mouse types. The expression patterns are also similar between plMø and AMø, while that of  Pparg  is clearly expressed only in AMø, and that of  Smad3  and  Spic  are only expressed in plMø. ( B ): The expressions of  Csf1 ,  Csf2  and  Il34  as well as  Tgfb1  in lung fibroblastic cells propagated by co-culturing with plMø in BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. ( C ): The expressions of  Tgfb1  and  Tgfbr2  in plMø and AMø from BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice.
L117: Alveolar macrophages develop from fetal monocytes that differentiate into long-lived cells in the first week of life via GM-CSF J. Exp. Med. 2013 210 1977 1992 10.1084/jem.20131199 24043763
L222: Induction of the nuclear receptor PPAR-γ by the cytokine GM-CSF is critical for the differentiation of fetal monocytes into alveolar macrophages Nat. Immunol. 2014 15 1026 1037 10.1038/ni.3005 25263125
L226: Distinctive Effects of GM-CSF and M-CSF on Proliferation and Polarization of Two Major Pulmonary Macrophage Populations J. Immunol. 2019 202 2700 2709 10.4049/jimmunol.1801387 30867240
L286:| Csf1 | str | 5 | Csf2, Il34, Tgfb1 |
