L14:The nature of the culture dish surface and the technique used to detach adherent cells could very likely influence the cell viability and cell membrane protein integrity of harvested macrophages. Several previous studies assessed the detachment efficacies of enzymatic and non-enzymatic methods for harvesting the single cell suspensions of macrophages, but a comprehensive study assessing different dissociation methods and culture conditions for detaching functionally different macrophage populations has not yet been reported. In this study,  via  the well-established GM-CSF and M-CSF differentiated bone marrow derived macrophage models (GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs), we compared four commonly used enzymatic (trypsin and accutase) and non-enzymatic (PBS and EDTA) dissociation methods along with necessary mechanical detaching steps (scraping and pipetting) to evaluate the viable cell recovery and cell surface marker integrality of GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs cultured on standard cell culture dish (TC dish), or on culture dish (noTC dish) that was not conditioned to enhance adherence. The data showed that accutase yielded a better recovery of viable cells comparing with PBS and EDTA, especially for tightly adherent GM-BMDMs on TC dishes, with a relatively higher level of detected cell membrane marker F4/80 than trypsin. An additional gradient centrifugation-based dead cell removal approach could increase the proportion of viable cells for TC cultured GM-BMDMs after accutase dissociation. Furthermore, transcriptome analysis was performed to evaluate the putative influence of culture dishes. At steady state, BMDMs cultured on noTC dishes exhibited more proinflammatory gene expression signatures (e.g. IL6, CXCL2 and ILlβ) and functions (e.g. TNF and IL17 signaling pathways). Similar inflammatory responses were observed upon LPS challenge regardless of culture conditions and differentiation factors. However, in LPS treated samples, the difference of gene expression patterns, signaling pathways and molecular functions between TC and noTC cultured BMDMs were largely dependent on the types of growth factors (M-CSF and GM-CSF). This observation might provide valuable information for  in vitro  macrophage studies.
L18:The use of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) is one of the most well-established means of studying macrophage biology  in vitro , as they were believed to represent the phenotypes and characteristics of  in vivo  macrophages ( 1 ). GM-CSF and M-CSF derived BMDMs (GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs) could resemble different macrophage maturation features of classically activated proinflammatory M1-like and alternatively activated restorative M2-like macrophages, respectively ( 2 ). Both membrane protein integrity and cell viability during dissociation are critical for successful downstream biological studies ( 3 ,  4 ), including flow cytometry and single cell RNA sequencing. Besides, cell adhesion characteristics vary with macrophage maturation/polarization ( 5 ,  6 ). Therefore, it is essential to determine the appropriate dissociation methods for different macrophage populations.
L19:Multiple attempts were made to optimize the cell culture condition and methods to diassociate M-CSF differentiated macrophages. Replacing standard tissue culture dishes treated to promote adherence (TC, hydrophilic, facilitating cell attachment) with untreated dishes (noTC, hydrophobic, reducing cell adhesion), or utilizing specific dissociation conditions, including nonenzymatic (EDTA or PBS solutions) or enzymatic ones (accutase or trypsin solutions), are the conditions typically employed to harvest the single cell suspension of BMDMs. In previous studies, accutase was reported to be a mild and highly efficient dissociation solution for detaching M-CSF primed monocyte derived macrophages (M0), IL4 challenged M0 (M2) and LPS+IFNγ challenged M0 (M1) when compared with EDTA and trypsin solutions ( 7 ,  8 ). However, the efficiency of different dissociation methods for BMDMs differentiated by GM-CSF, a growth factor previously proven to enhance the adhesion of monocytes, neutrophils, and macrophages ( 9 – 11 ), has not been reported, nor has there been a comparison made between the ease of dissociating GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs. It is worthwhile to determine the optimal solution and condition for dissociating both GM- and M-BMDMs, since these two types of BMDMs are usually compared for their signaling transduction pathways, macrophage function and gene expression patterns.
L20:TC and noTC dishes have been indiscriminately used in most BMDM related studies  in vitro  even though the anchorage capacities were theoretically weaker for noTC dishes. With both dishes, some BMDMs’ characteristics were studied and considered to be not influenced by culture conditions. For example, TC cultured BMDMs were utilized to explore the immunocompetence of GM-CSF and M-CSF primed macrophages and the heterogeneity of cell populations in GM-CSF primed bone marrow cells ( 12 ,  13 ). The noTC dish cultured BMDMs were used to analyze gene expression patterns of GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs in microarray experiments and the secretion profiles at the single cell level ( 6 ,  14 ). The cell metabolism and epigenetic genome modification of BMDMs were studied without specifying the dish conditions ( 15 ,  16 ). Nevertheless, the impact of dish surface conditions for monocyte-derived dendritic cells has been reported ( 17 ). At present, the influence of TC and noTC culture conditions on surface marker expression and inflammatory responses of GM-CSF and M-CSF primed BMDMs are not yet thoroughly investigated, which makes interpreting results extremely difficult. Therefore, it is necessary to characterize the phenotypes of BMDMs under different culture conditions to determine whether there are biologically significant differences in terms of gene expression profile and cell functions.
L21:In the present study, we applied two types of culture dishes (TC and noTC) for GM- and M-BMDMs maturation and used four different dissociation techniques to detach these BMDMs. As previously reported ( 18 ), accutase was found to be a mild and highly efficient dissociation reagent for all tested BMDMs, especially for the TC cultured GM-BMDMs that had the highest adhesive capacity. A gradient centrifugation-based dead cell removal procedure was additionally proposed as an extra step following accutase dissociation for the tightly adherent TC cultured GM-BMDMs in order to obtain more viable cells. Transcriptome analysis was also performed to determine whether culture conditions influence gene expression profiles of two types of BMDMs on TC and noTC culture dishes at both steady state and upon LPS treatment. The data suggested that at steady state, low adhesion on noTC culture dishes renders both GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs more proinflammatory. LPS could induce MyD88/NFκB and TRIF/IRF signaling in all the tested BMDMs; however, under the stimulation of LPS, inflammatory responses and cell adhesion activities were upregualted in noTC-GM-BMDMs, whereas cell proliferation and metabolism functions were enriched in noTC-M-BMDMs. Together, our data reveal the culture dish surface-dependent signaling changes and provide the optimal dissociation method for TC and noTC cultured BMDMs for further functional studies.
L24:TC treated cell culture dishes (Cat. F611203) and noTC treated polystyrene culture dishes (Cat. F611003) were purchased from Sangon Biotech (Shanghai). SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (2×) (Cat. 4913914001) was from Roche. RNAiso Plus (Cat. 9109) and PrimeScript™ RT reagent kit (Cat. RR047A) with gDNA eraser were from TaKaRa. LPS (Cat. L2630) and accutase solution containing 0.5 mM EDTA (Cat. A6964) were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. 0.5 M EDTA was obtained from Solarbio (Cat. 420404). 0.25% Trypsin containing 0.02% EDTA was from Zhejiang Senrui Biological Technology (Cat.CR-25200). Recombinant mouse M-CSF (Cat. 415-ML) and GM-CSF (Cat. 416-ML) were purchased from R&D Systems. Debris Removal Solution (Cat. 130-110-203) and antibodies against Ly6C (APC) (Cat. 130-111-779) were from Miltenyi Biotec. 7-AAD Viability Staining Solution (Cat. 51-68981E) and antibodies against F4/80 (PE) (Cat. 565410) were from BD Bioscience. Anti-MHCII (Brilliant Violet 421) (Cat. 107632) antibodies were from Biolegend. Antibodies against CD11b (PE-CY7) (Cat. 25-0112-82) and CD16/CD32 (Cat. 14-0161-86) and Rat IgG1 kappa isotype control (Cat. 14-4301-85) were from Invitrogen.
L27:Bone Marrow Derived Macrophage (BMDM) Culture
L28:Mouse BMDMs were prepared as previously described ( 19 ). Briefly, bone marrow cells were collected from femurs. The cell suspensions were passed through 100 μm cell strainer, collected by centrifugation at 300 g for 10 minutes, and resuspended in DMEM containing 10% FBS, 100 U/ml penicillin, 100 μg/ml streptomycin, either with 50 ng/ml M-CSF or 20 ng/ml GM-CSF. Cells (0.5×10 6  per ml for M-CSF and 1×10 6  per ml for GM-CSF) were seeded on TC or noTC dishes respectively and cultured at 37°C with 5% CO2 for 7 days without changing the media throughout the maturation process. For RT-PCR and RNA-seq analysis, mouse BMDMs cultured on TC and noTC dishes were treated with vehicle or LPS (100 ng/ml) for 3 hrs.
L30:For the detachment of M-BMDMs cultured on TC (M-TC) and noTC (M-noTC) dishes and GM-BMDMs on noTC dishes (GM-noTC), cells were washed with PBS and incubated with trypsin or accutase at room temperature (RT) for the indicated times as shown in  
L32: . Cells were pipetted without scraping and harvested. For tightly adherent GM-BMDMs cultured on TC dishes (GM-TC), cells were washed, incubated with trypsin or accutase at RT followed by further incubation at 37°C and scraped gently with cell lifters (Biologix, Cat. 70-2180) to harvest cell suspension. For nonenzymatic approaches, all these four types of BMDMs were washed and incubated with EDTA or PBS on ice for the indicated time with necessary mechanical steps (pipetting or scraping) (details in  
L35:Table 1 The comparisons of dissociation methods for BMDMs cultured on TC and noTC dishes.
L40:Mouse BMDMs cultured on TC and noTC dishes were treated with vehicle or LPS (100 ng/ml) for 3 hrs. Total RNA from cultured BMDMs was extracted with RNAiso Plus. Reverse transcription was performed with a PrimeScript™ RT reagent kit containing gDNA Eraser. The cDNA samples were amplified using SYBR Green in StepOne Plus Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems). The relative mRNA expression was determined using the ΔCt relative quantification method, which means relative mRNA levels of target gene = 2ˆ(-ΔCt) = 2ˆ(-(CT target gene  - CT reference gene )). Specific primers used in the real-time PCR (RT-PCR) were as follow:
L50:Mouse BMDMs cultured on the TC and noTC dishes were treated with vehicle or LPS (100 ng/ml) for 3 hrs. Total RNA was extracted using Trizol reagent kit (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. The mRNA was enriched by Oligo (dT) beads, fragmented using fragmentation buffer and reversely transcribed into cDNA by using NEBNext Ultra RNA Library Prep Kit for Illumina (NEB #7530). The resulting cDNA library was sequenced using Illumina Novaseq6000 by Gene Denovo Biotechnology Co. Clean reads were aligned to the mouse reference genome using HISAT2.2.4 ( 20 ). For each transcription region, a FPKM value was calculated to quantify its expression abundance, using RSEM software ( 21 ). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the DESeq2 ( 22 ). P-value <0.05 and fold change >2 or 1.5 were set as the threshold for significantly differential expression. KEGG pathway ( 23 ), GO enrichment ( 24 ), Reactome analysis ( 25 ,  26 ), PPI ( 27 ) and IPA ( 28 ) analysis of DEGs were respectively performed. The scaled FPKM values were normalized using z-score approach (z = (x-μ)/σ), where x is the FPKM value, μ is the mean of FPKM values of certain gene in all tested samples (row mean), and σ is the standard deviation of row values ( 29 ). The RNAseq data were deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database under the accession number GSE198821.
L59:Figure 1 Detaching approaches were performed with two types of BMDMs.  (A)  Schematic diagram of experimental workflow. Post 7 days’ maturation, GM and M were dissociated by enzymic or nonenzymic methods with pipetting or scraping as shown in  
L61: . The percentage of subpopulations was detected by flow cytometry. Dead cells were further discarded using gradient centrifugation for GM-TC samples when more viable GM-TC cells were needed.  (B)  Percentages of live BMDMs (n = 4 for each group) using different dissociation methods without dead cell removal process.  (C, H)  Gating strategies for GM-  (C)  and M-  (H)  BMDMs cultured on TC dishes and dissociated with accutase followed by necessary mechanical steps in flow cytometry. BMDMs were detached, blocked and stained with the indicated antibodies. Cells were gated for single cells, followed by gating live cells (7AAD-) and CD11b+ populations. The live 7AAD- CD11b+ cells were further analyzed for the specific subpopulations.  (C)  P1: CD11b + MHCII hi , P2: CD11b hi MHCII + , P3: CD11b hi/+ MHCII low/- , and CD11b + Ly6C +  cells;  (H)  P1: CD11b + MHCII hi/+ , P2: CD11b + MHCII low/- , and CD11b + Ly6C +  cells.  (D–G)  The percentages of CD11b hi MHCII + 
L67: (J)  subpopulations in M-TC and M-noTC samples.  (K–N)  MFI values of F4/80  (K) , MHCII  (L) , CD11b  (M)  and Ly6C  (N)  in the CD11b+ cells of GM and M.  (O)  MFI values of CD11b, F4/80, MHCII and Ly6C in the CD11b+ cells of GM-TC samples dissociated with EDTA (control group) or accutase at different temperatures and treatment times (n = 4 for each group). RT_10 min means incubation with accutase for 10 min at RT, RT_5 min +37°C_5 min means incubation for 5 min at RT followed by 5 min at 37°C, and RT_5 min+37°C_10 min means incubation for 5 min at RT followed by 10 min at 37°C.  (P)  Cell morphology of GM and M cultured on TC and noTC dishes. Scale bars, 100 μm.  (Q–S)  GM and M cells were treated with LPS (100 ng/ml) for 3 h. Total RNA was prepared and used to determine relative mRNA levels of proinflammatory factors IL1β  (Q) , TNFα  (R)  and IL6  (S) . One-way ANOVA was performed for  (D–G)  and  (I, J) . Two-way ANOVA was performed for  (B) ,  (K–O)  and  (Q-S) . For  (B) ,  P  < 0.05 is indicated by * for the comparison of other 3 dissociation methods vs the group with the lowest cell viability in each type of BMDMs. For  (D-G) ,  (I, J)  and  (K–N) ,  P  < 0.05 is indicated by * for the comparison of other 3 dissociation methods vs PBS groups within GM-TC, GM-noTC, M-TC and M-noTC samples, and # for comparison of the accutase dissociated samples between GM-TC vs GM-noTC or M-TC vs M-noTC. For  (O) ,  P  < 0.05 is indicated by * for the comparison of accutase treated samples with EDTA treated ones. For  (Q–S) ,  P  < 0.05 is indicated by * for the comparison of the TC vs noTC samples under the same conditions.
L70:In order to find out the optimal approach for dissociating GM- and M-BMDMs cultured on TC or noTC dishes, four frequently used detaching methods ( 7 ), including accutase, trypsin, EDTA and PBS were performed together with mechanically detaching methods (pipetting and scraping) ( 
L74: ). M-BMDMs cultured on either TC or noTC dishes (M-TC and M-noTC) were easily detached using both enzymatic and non-enzymatic methods with relatively short-term incubation and high cell viability (>85% except for PBS-M-TC) ( 
L76: ). GM-BMDMs cultured on noTC dishes (GM-noTC) required a relatively longer incubation time than M-BMDMs, but still, maintained an easily detaching status in all tested dissociation methods with high cell viability (>85%). However, GM-BMDMs cultured on TC dishes (GM-TC) were very hard to be detached and incubation with accutase or trypsin followed by pipetting and scraping is the optimal approach to harvest as many cells as possible with relatively high cell viability ( 
L79:Since cell surface markers are widely used in identifying the macrophage populations, we then investigated whether different detaching methods will influence the protein levels of classical BMDM maturation surface markers such as CD11b, Ly6C, MHCII and F4/80 ( 4 ,  30 ). As shown in  
L81: , GM-BMDMs could be divided into four subpopulations: CD11b + MHCII hi , CD11b hi MHCII + , CD11b hi/+ MHCII low/-  and CD11b + Ly6C +  cells. M-BMDMs were mainly divided into two subpopulations: CD11b + MHCII high/+  and CD11b + MHCII low/-  ( 
L83: ). The percentages of subpopulations in GM-BMDMs differed among different dissociation methods ( 
L91: ). The MFIs of CD11b were interfered only in TC cultured BMDMs to some extent by accutase incubation at RT for 5 min followed by 37°C for 10 min, especially for GM-TC samples ( 
L101: ), which might be partially due to different cell viabilities of these subpopulations under these detaching treatments. Collectively, these data suggested that accutase is the optimal dissociation approach for all the BMDMs we explored regardless of the growth factor and culture dish types.
L109: ), the type of culture dishes did have impacts on the percentages of different subpopulations. Post accutase incubation, percentages of all four GM-BMDM and two M-BMDM subpopulations cultured on TC dishes were relatively different comparing with noTC cultured ones ( 
L115: ) in GM-BMDMs. Besides, post toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist LPS treatment ( 31 ), the mRNA levels of IL1β, TNFα and IL6 were upregulated in both TC and noTC cultured GM- and M-BMDMs but were less strongly activated in noTC cultured cells ( 
L117: ). Considering that LPS could reorganize cell actin and influence macrophage adhesion ( 32 ), the dissociation efficacies of LPS activated BMDMs by accutase were determined and accutase could also efficiently harvest BMDMs post LPS treatment ( 
L119: ) despite the fact that LPS treatment changed the distribution of cell subpopulations and marker gene expression in GM- and M-BMDMs ( 
L122:Transcriptome Profiles of Two Types of BMDMs Cultured on TC and noTC Dishes
L123:To further investigate the influence of different culture conditions on macrophage gene expression and function, we performed RNA-seq analysis of GM-BMDMs (GM) and M-BMDMs (M) on TC and noTC dishes at resting/steady state or upon LPS challenge (GSE198821) ( 
L143: ). Taken together, these results suggested that proinflammatory signaling was enriched in noTC cultured BMDMs regardless of polarizing growth factors. Meanwhile, in the PPI network of DEGs of both GM-TC_vs_GM-noTC and M-TC_vs_M-noTC, actin cytoskeleton organization related genes such as ACTC1, ACTN2, CSRP3, MYBPC3 and MYL2 were identified as the downregulated hub genes ( 
L146:Figure 2 Transcriptome profiling of the impact of different culture conditions on BMDMs at steady state.  (A)  Schematic diagram of experimental workflow. GM and M cells cultured on TC and noTC dishes, in resting and 3 h LPS-stimulated states, were processed for RNA-seq analysis (n= 2 for each group).  (B, C)  The volcano plot of DEGs (fold change (FC)>2 and p<0.05) in GM-TC_vs_GM-noTC groups  (B)  and M-TC_vs_M-noTC groups  (C) . The grey dots represent genes without significant difference between two groups, the red dots for significantly upregulated DEGs and green dots for significantly downregulated ones.  (D, E)  The top 15 category terms of KEGG analysis of upregulated DEGs in GM-TC_vs_GM-noTC groups  (D)  and M-TC_vs_M-noTC groups  (E) .  (F, G)  PPI analysis of DEGs in GM-TC_vs_GM-noTC groups  (F)  and M-TC_vs_M-noTC groups  (G) . Red nodes indicate upregulated DEGs in the noTC group while green ones indicate downregulated ones. The node size represents the connectivity degree. Node color represents the value of LogFC.  (H)  Venn diagram of DEGs among indicated comparison groups.  (I)  Cluster heat maps of the shared 35 upregulated and 59 downregulated DEGs in  (H) . Rep1 and rep2 represent two biological replicates of samples for RNA-seq analysis.  (J, K)  The top 15 category terms of KEGG analysis of shared upregulated DEGs  (J)  and downregulated DEGs  (K)  in  (I) .  (L)  Hierarchical cluster analysis for the expression of all MHC genes found in our RNA-seq analysis. For  (I, L) , color scale represents scaled FPKM values normalized using z-score approach.
L147:There are 59 downregulated and 35 upregulated DEGs shared in GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs when comparing no-TC samples with their TC counterparts ( 
L153: ). These results confirmed that culturing on noTC dish could enhance a variety of proinflammatory signal pathways in both GM- and M-BMDMs.
L159:Comparison of LPS Induced Inflammatory Responses in Two Types of BMDMs Cultured on TC and noTC Dishes
L160:Next, we evaluated the LPS induced transcriptome changes of BMDMs cultured in different conditions. As shown in  
L173: ). There were 1009 upregulated and 2118 downregulated DEGs shared in the comparison of GM-TC_vs_GM-TC-LPS and GM-noTC_vs_GM-noTC-LPS. A total of 1066 upregulated and 3218 downregulated DEGs were shared in M-TC_vs_M-TC-LPS and M-noTC_vs_M-noTC-LPS. High similarities were observed and among them 721 upregulated and 1710 downregulated DEGs were shared in all the four comparison groups regardless of growth factors and culture conditions. To deeply elaborate the influence of LPS-stimulated inflammatory responses in BMDMs under different culture conditions, we further performed comparison analysis using IPA software. There were high similarities in terms of the representative signaling pathways, upstream regulators and disease/functions across all four comparing groups ( 
L179: ). In the biological function and disease comparisons, immune cell adhesion, migration, mobility and inflammatory responses were upregulated after LPS stimulation in both GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs cultured on both TC and noTC dishes ( 
L181: ). These data sugggested that LPS could induce relatively comparable inflammatory responses in both TC and noTC cultured BMDMs.
L182:Figure 3 Comparative analysis of LPS induced gene and functional changes of two types of BMDMs cultured on TC and noTC dishes using IPA software.  (A)  The Upset plot showed the number of shared DEGs of the indicated comparison of BMDMs at resting state and upon LPS challenge. Venn diagram of DEGs among the indicated comparison groups were embedded in the upper panels.  (B-D)  Heatmap of the representative canonical pathways  (B) , upstream regulators  (C)  and disease and function  (D)  between GM-TC_vs_GM-TC-LPS groups, GM-noTC_vs_GM-noTC-LPS groups, M-TC_vs_M-TC-LPS groups and M-noTC_vs_M-noTC-LPS groups. Positive z scores indicate an increase whereas negative ones indicate a reduction in LPS treated groups calculated using IPA software. n= 2 for each group.
L183:Comprehensive Analysis of the Influence of Culture Dish Surface on Two Types of BMDMs Upon LPS Challenge
L190: ), DEGs with fold change > 1.5 (p < 0.05) were extracted from RNA-seq data of LPS challenged different types of BMDMs ( 
L194: ). For LPS stimulated M-BMDMs, the top 15 upregulated KEGG pathways included cell cycle, DNA replication, mismatch repair and several metabolic pathways ( 
L196: ). These data suggested that culture condition interfered signaling pathways were different in GM-CSF and M-CSF differentiated BMDMs post LPS challenge, pointing to the diverse impacts of culture dish on gene expression at inflammatory state. Furthermore, we compared the DEGs in LPS challenged GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs ( 
L198: ). In consistent with the above functional analysis, there were only 21 upregulated and 4 downregulated shared genes in the comparison, suggesting the dissimilarity of culture dish-dependent responses in GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs post LPS treatment. Among the 21 shared upregulated DEGs, Mthfd1l, Adssl1 and St3gal6, which were related to anabolism and Dhrs9, which was related to retinol metabolism were included ( 
L200: ). Under both TC and noTC culture conditions, LPS induced TLR4-MyD88 and TRIF/IRF dependent signaling pathways ( 30 ) were upregulated in GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs ( 
L203:Figure 4 Transcriptome analysis of the influence of different culture dishes on BMDMs under LPS treatment.  (A)  Bar chart of DEGs among different groups. Fold change > 2 or 1.5 and p-value < 0.05 (n= 2 for each group).  (B)  The top canonical pathway comparison analysis of the DEGs (FC > 2 or 1.5 and p < 0.05) in  (A) . FC2 for GM_LPS means GM-TC-LPS vs GM-noTC-LPS (FC > 2 and p < 0.05) groups. Others were named in the same way. Positive z scores indicate an increase whereas negative ones indicate a reduction in LPS treated noTC cultured groups calculated using IPA software.  (C, D)  The top 15 category terms of KEGG analysis of upregulated DEGs in GM-TC-LPS_vs_GM-noTC-LPS groups  (C)  and M-TC-LPS_vs_M-noTC-LPS groups  (D) .  (E)  Venn diagram of DEGs among indicated comparison groups.  (F)  Cluster heatmap analysis of the shared 21 upregulated DEGs in  (E) .  (G)  Heat map analysis of classical proinflammatory factors in LPS-related pathways of each group. For  (F, G) , color scale represents scaled FPKM values normalized using z-score approach.
L204:IPA Comparison of the Influence of Culture Dish Surface on BMDMs at Steady State and Post LPS Stimulation
L205:In order to comprehensively illustrate the effects of dish surface on the gene expression profiles of BMDMs in both steady state and LPS-stimulated inflammatory state, we utilized IPA software to conduct further comparative analysis ( 
L207: ). In canonical pathway analysis, most inflammation-associated signal pathways were upregulated in noTC cultured BMDMs, at both basal level and after LPS stimulation, including HMGB1 signaling, osteoarthritis pathway, p38 MAPK signaling, IL8 signaling and TREM1 signaling. The anti-inflammatory function related LXR/RXR activation and cell cycle related G1/S checkpoint regulation were downregulated ( 
L209: ). In the upstream regulator comparison, certain regulatory factors were intensively upregulated across all the comparison groups, including CSF2, IL5, CD38, ZBTB10, IFNG, MAP3K8, IL33, IL4, NOTCH1, IRF1, HIF1A, STAT1, LCN2, AR, FOXO1, EGFR, IL17A, PTGER2, CASR, VDR, TNFSF12 and AGER, while the downregulated factors included IL10RA, NOSTRIN, SIRT1 and IL10. However, IL6, OSM, CHUK, NOS2, IKBKB and CCR2 were clustered to be upregulated at the steady state but downregulated post LPS stimulation in both GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs cultured on noTC dishes comparing with those on TC dishes ( 
L213: . The adhesion related gene ITGB7 was connected with IL10RA, whereas migration related gene MMP9 and adhesion related genes (COL1A1, PECAM1 and HLA-DOB) were connected with IFNG. In the biological function and disease comparison, the terms related to cell adhesion, such as cell infiltration by phagocytes, cell movement of macrophages, and recruitment of phagocytes, were all upregulated in noTC cultured BMDMs under both steady state and LPS challenge ( 
L215: ). These data suggested that under resting and stimulated conditions, there were some shared upregulated canonical pathways, upstream regulators and disease/functions, mainly inflammation associated ones, regardless of differentiation and polarizing growth factors. However, dissimilarity of the influence of culture conditions in GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs also existed, in which some of them relied on cell states (LPS challenge or not) and others depended on growth factors (GM-CSF and M-CSF).
L216:Figure 5 The effects of different culture dishes under the resting and inflammatory states for BMDMs by IPA comparison.  (A, B, D)  Canonical pathway comparison  (A) , Upstream regulator comparison  (B) , and Disease and biological function comparison  (D)  were conducted by comparing significant differences between M-TC vs M-noTC groups, M-TC-LPS vs M-noTC-LPS groups, GM-TC vs GM-noTC groups and GM-TC-LPS vs GM-noTC-LPS groups. Positive z scores indicate an increase whereas negative ones indicate a reduction in the noTC cultured BMDMs calculated using IPA software.  (C)  These selected upstream regulator gene networks of the anti-inflammatory factor (IL10R) and proinflammatory factor (IFNG) and relationship for the related DEGs between the GM-TC-LPS vs GM-noTC-LPS groups and M-TC-LPS vs M-noTC-LPS groups. n= 2 for each group. The edges connecting the nodes are colored orange when upstream regulators have activating effects on their target genes and blue when they have inhibiting effects.
L217:Cell Adhesion, Cell Cycle and Cytokines Were Centered on the Similarities of BMDMs Under Different Culture Conditions and Cell Status
L218:Although relatively high similarities of gene expression patterns existed when comparing no-TC-BMDMs with their counterparts, there were also certain differences. Based on the above functional analysis, cytokine response, cell adhesion and cell cycle associated signaling pathways were the most prominent differences. For noTC cultured BMDMs, both at steady state and after LPS challenge ( 
L224: ). Besides, the overall expression levels of genes related to cell cycle, cell adhesion and cytokine production were also higher in the indicated noTC cultured BMDMs ( 
L232: ), were enriched in M_noTC_LPS group. In conclusion, at both steady and inflammatory states, noTC cultured GM-BMDMs were biased to upregulate the function of cell adhesion and M-BMDMs were prone to enhance the cell cycle progression, pointing to the differential influences of culture dish surfaces on the functions of different macrophage populations.
L233:Figure 6 The gene expression profiles related to cell adhesion, cell cycle and cytokines exhibited similar trends in BMDMs.  (A–C)  The gene number distribution of DEG related to cell adhesion  (A) , cell cycle  (B)  and cytokine  (C)  in the comparison of noTC and TC groups of GM and M at resting state and post LPS challenge.  (D–F)  The fpkm ratio (noTC/TC) of total enriched DEGs of the indicated functional terms of GM and M at both resting state and post LPS challenge.  (G)  The predicted upregulated adhesion related functional gene network of “adhesion of immune cells” using IPA software. Orange indicates upregulated upstream regulators/function in GM-noTC-LPS comparing with GM-TC-LPS. Green indicates downregulated DEGs while red indicates upregulated DEGs in GM-noTC-LPS.  (H–I)  The predicted upregulated cell cycle related upstream regulators including CCND1 and MYC  (H)  and functions such as M phase, interphase, entry into interphase and G1 phase  (I)  and their DEG network diagram in M-TC-LPS_vs_M-noTC-LPS comparison using IPA software. Orange indicates upregulated upstream regulators/function in M-noTC-LPS comparing with M-TC-LPS. Green indicates downregulated DEGs while red indicates upregulated DEGs in M-noTC-LPS. The edges connecting the nodes are colored orange when upstream regulators have activating effects on their target genes and blue when they have inhibiting effects.
L235:Establishing the optimal culture conditions and cell detaching methods is indispensable for macrophage phenotypic and functional studies. Several reports compared different dissociation methods in M-CSF primed monocyte-derived macrophages challenged with or without IL4 or LPS+IFNγ ( 7 ,  8 ). The influence of different culture conditions (collagen coated 2D surfaces vs collagen 3D scaffold) on certain macrophage populations was also discussed ( 34 ,  35 ). However, the detailed elucidation of the influence of these two aspects, especially TC and noTC culture dishes, to macrophage gene expression and function remains to be determined. In the present study, we compared different detaching methods and found that accutase was the optimal approach for the detachment of M-CSF and GM-CSF differentiated BMDMs with high cell viability and intact cell surface markers. For GM-BMDMs cultured on TC dishes which have strongest adherent capacity, accutase digestion followed by removing dead nonfunctioning cells with a density gradient centrifugation could further enhance the percentage of viable cells. In addition, we performed RNA-seq analysis of GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs cultured on TC and noTC dishes with or without LPS challenge. Bioinformatic analysis of gene expression patterns at the steady state identified the proinflammatory tendency of BMDMs grown on noTC dishes. Furthermore, the similarity and dissimilarity of the gene expression profiles with different dish surfaces and cell states (steady state and LPS challenge) were also identified. The culture dish-dependent and -independent functions of GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs were elaborated. Among them, cell adhesion, cytokine and cell cycle associated terms were centered in culture dish-dependent changes.
