L11:The present study aimed to elucidate the effect of HkEf phagocytosed by intestinal dendritic cells (DCs) to secrete exosomes, on immune cells and their underlying mechanisms using mouse bone marrow-derived DCs [BMDCs; mainly plasmacytoid (pDCs) or conventional (cDCs)] as intestinal DCs, to examine the effects of exosomes purified and isolated from HkEf-stimulated BMDCs on a subset of immune cells derived from mouse spleen, and analyzing microRNAs (miRNAs) in exosomes derived from BMDCs and macrophages (BMDMs).
L29:MiRNA assay of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions.  Mouse bone marrow cells were stimulated using GM-CSF (077-04674; FUJIFILM Wako Pure Chemical Corporation). HkEf (-) and (+) exosome fractions were obtained from BMDMs as previously described by Matsuo  et al  ( 5 ).
L42:miRNA assay of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions
L43:The heatmap of the FirePlex ® miRNA multiplex assay of BMDM-derived exosome fractions in Experiment 3 is revealed in  Fig. 3 .
L46:In a previous study by the authors ( 5 ), BMDMs were used as test cells. Orally administered HkEf was suggested to have been phagocyted by gut macrophages after which they released exosomes as signal transmitters for immune regulation. In Experiment 1 of the present study, a stimulation test on mouse spleen cells was also conducted using BMDCs (pDC/cDC) obtained via differentiation with Flt3-L. Quantitative changes were predicted in exosomes upon HkEf stimulation; however, no marked quantitative differences were observed between the HkEf (-) and (+) groups in terms of exosome release. While cDC and pDC significantly increased in the HkEf (+) group compared with that in the HkEf (-) group based on the effect on the immune spleen cell subset, no such influence was observed in NK cells, activated NK cells, and red pulp macrophages. This suggests that the qualitative change of exosomes is accompanied by quantitative changes in cDC and pDC. Furthermore, exosomes related to immune response signals were released from gut immune cells due to HkEf intake and were transported to remote tissues; this finding is supported by a previous study ( 5 ) on systemic immunostimulatory regulation.
L50:In Experiment 3, miRNAs of exosome fractions derived from BMDMs were examined.
L51:The significantly increased miRNAs were almost common among the BMDC- and BMDM-derived exosome fractions, despite small differences in the quantity. Unlike the measured value of BMDC-derived exosome fractions, the rate of increase in miR-17 and miR-20a, which inhibited differentiation to macrophages targeting RUNX1( 29 ), were smaller in BMDM-derived exosome fractions (Experiment 3: miR-17, 1.25-fold, miR-20a, 1.39-fold; Experiment 2: miR-17, 12.17-fold, miR-20a, 9.59-fold). In a previous study of BMDM-derived mouse spleen cells ( 5 ), the number of red pulp macrophages increased. This may be because the rate of increase in BMDM-derived miR-17 and miR-20a was smaller than that of BMDCs, because of which differentiation to macrophages may be induced. Although in Experiment 3 miR-223 decreased more in the HkEf (+) than in the HkEf (-) groups, in Experiment 2, miR-223 conversely increased significantly (Experiment 3: 0.54-fold; Experiment 2: 11.01-fold). As previously mentioned, the inhibition of miR-223 induces an increase in erythrocytes and macrophages, while differentiation to DCs is inhibited.
L58:Moreover, as a result of measuring miRNAs in HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions derived from BMDCs (pDC/cDCs) and BMDMs (macrophages), effects mediated by miRNA-rich exosomes such as miR-146, which play a part in the complement mechanism of cells of the innate immune system are hypothesized. Orally administered HkEf releases exosomes involved in immune response signals by intestinal immune cells (macrophages and DCs), and regulates immune activation as an effect on distant immune tissues via blood circulation. Thus, it can be hypothesized that this is one of the mechanisms to prevent systemic infection.
L71:Figure 3 Immuno-miRs of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions. (A) A heat map was used to visualize the assayed miRs. Ratio to mean value is shown by log10 conversion. (B and C) MFI of microRNA shown in (B) HkEf (-) group and (C) HkEf (+) group. In the HkEf (-) group, exosome fractions were released from HkEf-non treated BMDMs. In the HkEf (+) group, exosome fractions were released from HkEf-treated BMDMs. miRs, microRNAs; BMDMs, bone marrow-derived macrophages; HkEf, heat-killed  Enterococcus faecalis ; MFI, mean fluorescence intensity.
[24ms]
