L38:Microglial phagocytosis of haematomas is crucial for neural functional recovery following intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH), a process regulated by various factors from within and outside the central nervous system (CNS). Extracellular vesicles (EVs), significant mediators of intercellular communication, have been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis and progression of CNS diseases. However, the regulatory role of endogenous EVs on the phagocytic capacity of microglia post‐ICH remains elusive. Utilising multi‐omics analysis of brain tissue‐derived EVs proteomics and single‐cell RNA sequencing, this study identified that bone marrow‐derived macrophages (BMDMs) potentially enhance microglial phagocytosis via EVs following ICH. By blocking BMDMs and reducing ARG1 in BMDM‐derived EVs, we demonstrated that BMDMs facilitate erythrophagocytosis by delivering ARG1 to microglia via EVs post‐ICH. EVs‐carried ARG1 was found to augment phagocytosis by promoting RAC1‐dependent cytoskeletal remodelling in microglia. Collectively, this research uncovers an intercellular communication pathway from BMDMs to microglia mediated by EVs post‐ICH. This provides a novel paradigm for 
L40:ARG1; BMDM; EVs; ICH; microglia; phagocytosis
L46:In this study, we explored the influence of EVs within the CNS on microglial erythrophagocytosis and haematoma regression post‐ICH. Utilising multiomic analysis, which combined EVs protein profiling and single‐cell RNA sequencing of brain tissue, we discovered that BMDMs are actively involved in the production of EVs following ICH. Impeding BMDMs resulted in a weakening of microglial erythrophagocytosis and a deceleration of haematoma clearance. We observed that after ICH, the ARG1‐enriched EVs derived from BMDMs were found in brain tissue EVs comparing to the Sham group. ARG1 is typically highly expressed in pro‐resolving macrophages, which predominate during the subacute and chronic phases of injury, and are involved in the conversion of arginine to ornithine from protein degradation in apoptotic cells. In contrast, in pro‐inflammatory macrophages, which are prevalent during the acute phase of injury, arginine is primarily metabolised by inducible nitric oxide synthase to produce NO (Erwig and Henson  2008 ). Research on arterial plaques has demonstrated that phagocytes can utilise ornithine to synthesise putrescine during the clearance of apoptotic cells, thereby promoting c
L56:BMDMs were extracted from the femurs of adult mice. Briefly, after cervical dislocation of adult mice, bilateral femurs were immediately isolated and placed in HBSS buffer. Both ends of the femurs were cut off, and the marrow cells were flushed out using a 5 mL syringe with HBSS buffer, repeating the process three times for each femur. After centrifuging at 300 ×  g  for 5 min, RBCs were lysed using RBC lysis buffer (Invitrogen, 00‐4333‐57, USA). The cell suspension was filtered through a 40 µm cell strainer, centrifuged again to obtain the cell pellets, and then resuspended in DMEM culture medium (Gibco, 11965092, USA) containing 20 ng/mL M‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐02, USA) and 20 ng/mL GM‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐03, USA) and 10% FBS before being seeded into cell culture flasks. Three days later, the medium was completely replaced to remove non‐adherent cells, and subsequently, half of the medium was changed every 3 days.
L59:BMDM‐EVs were extracted from BMDM conditional culture medium following MISEV2018 and MISEV2023 guidelines and protocol as previously described (Wang et al.  2024 ). In brief, mature BMDMs were gently washed for three times with PBS to remove dead cells or impurities. Replace the medium with a complete culture medium that has been pre‐treated with ultracentrifugation to remove EVs from FBS. After culturing for 96 h, collect the culture medium for subsequent sequential ultracentrifugation, using the same parameters and procedures as previously described for the extraction of tissue‐derived EVs.
L78:Bone Marrow Macrophages Clearance
L79:The method of clearing bone marrow macrophages with busulfan was previously published (Peake et al.  2015 ). In brief, busulfan powder (MedChemExpress, HY‐B0245, USA) was dissolved in DMSO (Sigma‐Aldrich, D2650, USA) to prepare a 12 mg/mL stock solution, which was aliquoted and stored at −20°C. Before each injection, the stock solution was diluted with sterile water to a working concentration of 6 mg/mL. The injection was completed within 10 min. Starting 7 days before the planned model construction, the drug was administered intraperitoneally every 2 days, with a dose of 20 mg busulfan per kilogram of body weight. Mice in the Vehicle control group received an equivalent volume of DMSO and sterile water mixture.
L94:RNA extraction and qRT‐PCR was performed as previously described (Zhang et al.  2020 ). We utilised a Rneasy Plus Micro kit (Qiagen, 74034, USA) to extract total RNA from flow cytometry‐sorted microglial cells (MG) and BMDMs. The extraction process was conducted strictly according to the manufacturer's instructions. After extraction, the RNA was transcribed into cDNA using a quantitative PCR‐specific reverse transcription kit (Takara, RR047A, Japan). Subsequently, the transcript levels of  Arg1  and  Actb  in each sample were quantitatively analysed using TB Green Premix Ex Taq reagent (Takara, RR420A, Japan) and the LightCycler 480 real‐time fluorescence quantitative PCR system (Roche, LightCycler 480, USA). Each sample was repeated in three technical replicates, and relative quantification was performed based on the Ct values. The primer sequences for  Arg1  and  Actb  are provided in  Supporting Information: Table .
L98:We have procured a custom lentivirus (LV‐Arg1‐RNAi) from Shanghai GeneChem Co., Ltd. ( www.genechem.com.cn ) to infect primary BMDMs cultured in vitro, with the aim of interfering with the expression of ARG1 in these cells. In summary, after the primary BMDMs were extracted and cultured for 6 days, in a P2 laboratory setting, a complete culture medium containing 10% FBS and 4% virus infection enhancement solution (GeneChem, HitransG A, China) was prepared. Subsequently, the lentivirus solution was added at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 5, and the culture medium in the flask was replaced. The cells were then incubated in an incubator for an additional 72 h, during which, over 80% of the cells exhibited green fluorescence under a fluorescence microscope. The culture medium was then replaced with a complete medium supplemented with 2 µg/mL puromycin (Beyotime Biotechnology, ST551‐10 mg, China), and the cells were further cultured for 3 days to obtain a pure population of BMDMs with reduced ARG1 expression.
L114:Proteomic Analysis and Single‐Cell Sequencing Reveal That EVs Mediating Enhanced Microglial Erythrophagocytosis After ICH Originate From BMDMs
L116:FIGURE 2 Proteomic profiling and single‐cell sequencing revealing BMDMs are the source of characteristic proteins in ICH‐EVs. (a) Distance mapping of proteins using Pearson's correlation coefficient between Sham‐EVs and ICH‐EVs, indicating good homogeneity within sample groups. (b) Venn diagrams illustrating the convergence and noncongruence of proteins. (c) Heatmap showing the abundance of the top 15 proteins with non‐null values in at least two out of three replicate experiments in the ICH‐EVs group, whereas all data in the Sham‐EVs group were null. (d) GO annotation analysis of genes corresponding to proteins detected only in ICH‐EVs, the top 10 annotations of genes in BP and MF are shown. (e) tSNE plot of single‐cell sequencing results from brain tissue samples of sham and HS mice, overlaid with blue representing the Sham group and orange representing the HS group. (f) Relative proportions of various cell populations in the single‐cell sequencing of sham and HS groups. (g) Sankey diagram illustrating the correspondence between characteristic proteins in ICH‐EVs proteomics and characteristic genes in cell populations from single‐cell sequencing. ARG1 and NOX2 proteins detec
L118:EVs can be produced by almost all cell types. To identify the source of the ‘novel components’ that enhance microglial erythrophagocytosis, we processed single‐cell sequencing data from sham‐operated and haemorrhagic stroke (HS) mice for dimensionality reduction (Figure  S3a,b ). We found that the brains of sham‐operated mice had almost no neutrophils (NEUT) or BMDMs, whereas these cell populations were more prevalent in the brains of haemorrhagic stroke mice (Figure  2e,f  and  S3b,c ). We validated the changes in cell subpopulations suggested by single‐cell sequencing through dimensionality reduction analysis of CD45+ cells in the brain tissue of mice using flow cytometry (Figures  2i  and  S4a ). In the brain tissue of sham‐operated mice, there were almost no BMDM cells, whereas a significant number of BMDM cells were observed in the brain tissue of mice with ICH (Figure  2j–l ). In addition, the changes in the cell proportions of microglia (MG), NEUT and lymphocytes (LYM) before and after haemorrhage were also consistent with the results of single‐cell sequencing (Figure  S4b–d ).
L119:By comparing the specific proteins in ICH‐EVs with the characteristic genes of cell populations identified in the single‐cell sequencing data (genes with mRNA abundance more than twice as high in one cell population than in any other), we found that among the 15 most abundant unique proteins in ICH‐EVs, ARG1 and NOX2 (gene name  cybb ) were characteristic proteins of the BMDM population, A2M was characteristic of the oligodendrocyte population, and PPP1R14A was characteristic of the PC population (Figure  2g,h ).
L120:These results suggest that following ICH, the BMDM cell population most likely contributes EVs or proteins that enhance the phagocytic function of microglial cells.
L121:Deficiency of BMDM Attenuates Microglial Erythrophagocytosis and Delays Haematoma Clearance and Neurological Recovery
L122:Busulfan, a myelosuppressive agent primarily used for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, has been employed in animal studies to establish myeloablation models or to prepare for bone marrow transplantation (O'Marcaigh and Betcher  1996 ). To assess the impact of BMDM‐derived EVs on the erythrophagocytic activity of microglial cells, we induced ICH in mice following myeloablation with busulfan and evaluated the residual haematoma, neurological recovery, and the erythrophagocytosis of microglia (Figures  3a  and  S5 ).
L123:FIGURE 3 Impaired erythrophagocytosis of microglia, delayed haematoma clearance and neurological recovery in mice lacking BMDMs. (a) Experimental workflow to investigate the effects of BMDM depletion on haematoma clearance, neurological recovery, and microglial erythrophagocytosis following ICH in mice. Mice were intraperitoneally injected with busulfan to eliminate bone marrow cells, subjected to ICH modelling, and then assessed for neurological function, residual haematoma volume and microglial phagocytosis of RBCs at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. (b) Representative images of coronal brain sections from mice at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH, showing residual haematomas. Scale bar, 5 mm. (c) Quantification of residual haematoma volume at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.05, ns, not significant. (d) Quantification of residual haematoma index at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (e) Quantification of residual haemoglobin levels in the mouse brain. Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (f–i) Statistical graphs of neurological dysfunction assessments using the cylin
L126:Following ICH, the clearance of the haematoma within the brain tissue primarily relies on the phagocytic activity of microglial cells and peripheral infiltrating macrophages. We used magnetic bead sorting and in vitro RBCs co‐culture phagocytosis assays to assess the impact of BMDM deficiency on the erythrophagocytic function of microglial cells (Figure  S6a,b ). The sham group represented the baseline level of erythrocyte phagocytosis by microglial cells under non‐injury stress conditions, and busulfan pretreatment did not affect the phagocytic activity of microglial cells. The phagocytic activity of microglia in the intracerebral haemorrhage group did not significantly differ from that in the sham group 1 day post‐haemorrhage (Figure  S6c–e ). However, by the 3th day post‐ICH, microglia in the vehicle group exhibited a heightened erythrophagocytic capacity compared to the sham group, while the Busulfan group showed no significant difference in microglial erythrophagocytisis when compared to the sham group, and this activity was lower than vehicle group. (Figure  S6f–h ). By the 7th day post‐ICH, microglial erythrophagocytisis in both the vehicle and Busulfan groups were high
L128:These findings indicate that following ICH, the BMDMs can enhance the erythrophagocytosis of microglial cells and directly or indirectly promote the process of haematoma clearance and the recovery from neurological deficits. Based on previous studies, we speculate that BMDMs may facilitate the erythrophagocytic activity of microglial cells through EVs as a medium of intercellular communication.
L129:BMDM‐Derived EVs Enhance Microglial Erythrophagocytosis
L130:We initially investigated the impact of BMDMs on the ARG1 levels in microglia using an in vitro Transwell coculture system. PMGs were seeded in the upper chamber of the Transwell insert, whereas BMDMs were plated in the lower chamber (Figure  S7a–c ). Following 96 h of coculture, approximately 1% of the PMGs became ARG1‐positive (Figure  S7d ). Moreover, the PMGs cocultured with BMDMs exhibited a higher mean fluorescence intensity of ARG1 (Figure  S7e ).
L131:To investigate whether BMDM‐derived EVs (BMDM‐EVs) are the EVs in the brain tissue after ICH that enhance the phagocytic function of microglial cells, we extracted EVs from the culture medium of BMDMs using sequential ultracentrifugation. TEM imaging revealed a typical concave cup‐shaped structure (Figure  4a ), and NTA showed that the particle size of BMDM‐EVs was approximately 100–200 nm (Figure  4b ). Western blotting demonstrated the presence of typical EV markers in BMDM‐EVs (Figure  4c ).
L132:FIGURE 4 BMDM‐EVs enhance microglial phagocytic capacity and reduces residual haematoma in myeloablation mice following ICH. (a) Schematic of the procedure for extracting EVs from cultured BMDM cells and representative TEM image of BMDM‐EVs. Scale bar, 100 nm. (b) Particle size distribution of BMDM‐EVs as determined by NTA. (c) Western blot showing the presence of ALIX, CD63, ACTIN and CD9 in BMDM cells and EVs. (d) Representative fluorescence images of PMG treated with PBS or BMDM‐EVs and phagocytosing fluorescently labelled RBCs. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Red: PKH26‐labelled RBCs, Green: Fluorescein‐conjugated Lectin antibody‐labelled PMG. Scale bar, 50 and 10 µm. (e) Violin plot showing the fluorescence intensity of RBCs phagocytosed by individual PMG in the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM, **** p  < 0.0001. (f) Violin plots showing the phagocytic index of each PMG, represented as RBC Intensity per unit area of PMG (PKH26 Intensity/LECTIN Area) ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM. **** p  < 0.0001. (g) Quantification of residual RBCs in the culture media of PMG from the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 
L133:We first examined the effect of BMDM‐EVs on the erythrophagocytosis activity of primary microglial cells in vitro. Fluorescence imaging analysis showed that BMDM‐EVs increased the fluorescence intensity of RBCs internalised by microglial cells in co‐culture phagocytosis experiments (Figure  4d–f ). Counts of residual RBCs and haemoglobin assays in the culture medium indicated that there were fewer residual RBCs and lower levels of haemoglobin in the BMDM‐EVs group compared to PBS group (Figure  4g,h ). These results suggest that BMDM‐EVs enhance the ability of primary microglial cells to uptake RBCs.
L134:We further validated the function of BMDM‐EVs in the mouse model of ICH. To exclude the influence of BMDMs, we first performed myeloablation with busulfan. After establishing the ICH model in mice, we injected BMDM‐EVs into the mice via tail vein. We labelled the EVs with PKH67 and DIR fluorescent dyes to visualise their entry into the CNS. Immunofluorescence imaging of frozen brain sections showed aggregation of EVs within the haematoma cavity and enrichment in the peri‐haematoma region (Figure  S8a–c ). Immunofluorescence also revealed a significant presence of PKH67‐labelled BMDM‐EVs within microglial cells (Figures  4j  and  S9 ). In vivo bioluminescence imaging detected DIR fluorescence signals at the site of haemorrhagic injury in mice (Figure  S8d,e ), indicating that tail vein‐injected BMDM‐EVs can cross the BBB, particularly accumulating in the haemorrhagic injury area, possibly due to the disruption of the BBB by the injury.
L135:We further explored the effects of BMDM‐EVs treatment on the erythrophagocytosis function of microglial cells and haematoma clearance in the brains of mice post‐ICH. Haematoma image analysis revealed that mice treated with BMDM‐EVs had less residual haematoma in their brain tissue (Figures  4l,m  and  S10a ). BMDM‐EVs also reduced the levels of residual haemoglobin in the brain tissue at 7 days post‐ICH (Figure  4n ). Moreover, we isolated microglial cells from the brain tissue of mice in both groups using magnetic beads sorting and conducted RBCs co‐culture phagocytosis experiments. The results showed that BMDM‐EVs increased the phagocytic ratio of microglial cells and the phagocytic index for fluorescently labelled RBCs (Figure 4k,o,p). Behavioural tests at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH demonstrated improved neurological function in mice treated with BMDM‐EVs compared to the PBS group at the same time points (Figure  S10b–e ).
L136:Arginase1 in BMDM‐EVs is the Key Protein Enhance Microglial Erythrophagocytosis
L137:By comparing the characteristic genes of BMDM cells identified in single‐cell sequencing with the characteristic proteins of ICH‐EVs detected in EVs proteomics, we found that ARG1 and NOX2 were predominantly derived from BMDM cells and specifically present in the EVs within the brain tissue post‐ICH (Figure  S11a ). Western blotting results confirmed this (Figure  5a,b ).
L138:FIGURE 5 ARG1 in BMDM‐EVs promote microglial phagocytosis of RBCs. (a) Western blot analysis showing the protein levels of ALIX, ARG1, CD63, ACTIN and CD9 in EVs extracted from the haemorrhagic brain of mice at 1, 3, and 7 days post‐ICH. (b) Quantitative analysis of the gray intensity of ARG1 in the EVs by Western blot ( n  = 6), Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001, ns, not significant. (c) qRT‐PCR analysis of the relative expression levels of  Arg1  mRNA in microglial cells from the haemorrhagic brain tissue of mice pre‐treated with Vehicle or Busulfan ( n  = 6), Data are presented as mean ± SD. ns, not significant. (d) Flow cytometry analysis of the mean fluorescence intensity of ARG1 protein in microglial cells from the haemorrhagic brain tissue of mice pre‐treated with Vehicle or Busulfan ( n  = 6), Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001, ns, not significant. (e) Pearson correlation coefficient analysis of the phagocytic index and MFI of ARG1 and NOX2 in microglial cells from the haemorrhagic brain tissue of mice pre‐treated with Vehicle or Busulfan. (f) Schematic summary illustrating the impact of recruited BMDM in Vehicle‐treated mice and Busulfan‐tr
L139:We performed quantitative PCR (qPCR) on microglial cells and BMDM cells sorted by flow cytometry and found that the  Arg1  mRNA levels in microglial cells from both the vehicle control group and the busulfan‐pretreated group did not significantly change before and up to 7 days post‐ICH. However, the  Arg1  mRNA levels in BMDM cells sorted from the vehicle control group's brain tissue showed a increase post‐ICH, and were significantly higher than those in microglial cells at the same time points (Figures  5c  and  S11b ). Furthermore, we detected the levels of ARG1 and NOX2 proteins in microglial cells and BMDM cells using flow cytometry. In the vehicle control group, the ARG1 level in microglial cells increased at 3 days post‐ICH, whereas the ARG1 level in microglial cells from the busulfan‐pretreated group showed no significant change and was significantly lower than that in the vehicle control group (Figure  5d ). The NOX2 level in microglial cells showed no significant change in both the vehicle control and busulfan groups (Figure  S11c ). At 3 days post‐ICH, the ARG1 level in BMDM was higher than that at 1 day post‐ICH, and at 7 days post‐ICH, the ARG1 fluorescence intensi
[35ms]
