L14:We developed a transgenic mouse model (FAD4T) by overexpressing human APPSwe/Ind and PSEN1 M146L/L286V on a C57BL/6J background. FAD 4T  mice were characterized for hallmark AD features, including amyloid deposition, glial activation, and cognitive deficits. Additionally, single-cell transcriptomic analysis was performed to profile bone marrow and brain myeloid cells. Bone marrow transplantation experiments were conducted to assess the contribution of bone marrow-derived macrophages to neuroinflammation in AD.
L16:FAD 4T  mice exhibited hallmark AD phenotypes such as amyloid deposition, glial activation, and cognitive impairment, alongside osteoporosis-like changes. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified a significant increase in bone marrow-derived macrophages in the brains of FAD 4T  mice. These cells showed upregulation of AD-related genes, including  Cst7  and  Ctsd , suggesting their active role in neuroinflammation. Bone marrow transplantation experiments further confirmed that bone marrow-derived macrophages contributed to the inflammatory processes in the AD brain.
L27:In addition to Aβ plaques and NFTs, multiple lines of evidence have revealed that the activation of immune cells is a critical regulator of AD pathology. When the blood–brain barrier (BBB) is impaired during AD, peripheral immune cells and cytokines can enter the CNS and execute their roles [ [10] ,  [11] ,  [12] ]. In our recent study, we showed that loss of osteocytes drives the senescence of bone and bone marrow [ 13 ]. Intriguingly, osteoporosis and AD are two concomitant degenerative diseases in the aged population [ 14 , 15 ]. It is possible that bone alteration during aging contributes to AD progression via the bone marrow-brain axis. In this study, we used a newly developed AD mouse model FAD 4T , which exhibits both disease onset of AD and osteoporosis-like phenotypes at 8 months of age. It combines human APP Swedish (K595N/M596L) and Indiana (V642F) mutations with PSEN1 M146L and L286V mutations—a distinct set not replicated in existing models. We precisely mapped its transgene insertion to the Arhgef38 and Sfi1 loci (unrelated to AD or bone biology), ruling out insertion artifacts. Through single-cell transcriptome analysis, we found an increase of bone marrow-derive
L68:Trajectory analysis of macrophage and monocyte subsets in the brain showed differentiation toward M1 macrophages. Similarly, upregulation of cytokines and enrichment of several proinflammatory metabolic pathways were observed in 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain macrophages. Furthermore, the hub location of bone marrow macrophages in cluster interaction analysis indicated that bone marrow macrophages probably reshaped the inflammatory environment in FAD 4T  mice via induction of M1 macrophage differentiation in the brain. Reclustering of macrophages also identified a specific subcluster in the 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain. Its role in the brain immune environment and AD pathogenesis needs further validation.
L69:Intriguingly, further ligand-receptor analysis revealed the interaction between bone marrow macrophages and component cells of the BBB, such as the  Grn-Sort1  axis, as an important regulator of BBB integrity. Brain endothelial cells, pericytes and bone marrow myeloid cells also interacted with each other via several  Cxcl  pathways, as identified in ligand-receptor analysis, indicating the recruitment of bone marrow myeloid cells to the brain. Since breakdown of the BBB is an early biomarker of human AD and many other neuroinflammatory diseases [ 10 ], we propose that bone marrow myeloid cells impair BBB integrity via local inflammation and proinflammatory cytokines. The similar changes like those in bone marrow of FAD 4T  mice were also found in other amyloid models. In 5 × FAD mice, single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that monocyte-derived macrophages from bone marrow, express a unique set of genes encoding scavenger receptors (for example, Mrc1, Msr1) [ 12 ]. CCR2-mediated monocyte trafficking contributed to the cognitive improvement induced by anti-PD-L1 treatment in 5 × FAD mice [ 12 ]. In 5 × FAD and 3 × Tg-AD mice, neutrophils derived from bone marrow migrate into brain
L110:Bone-marrow cells adoptive transfer experiments
L140:12 Dvir-Szternfeld R. Castellani G. Arad M. Cahalon L. Colaiuta S.P. Keren-Shaul H. Alzheimer's disease modification mediated by bone marrow-derived macrophages via a TREM2-independent pathway in mouse model of amyloidosis Nat Aging 2 2022 60 73 37118355
[75ms]
