L1:Protocol for analyzing BCG-induced trained immunity in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages
L5:Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), the only licensed tuberculosis vaccine, provides non-specific protection against non-tuberculosis diseases that is mediated by trained immunity, a functional reprogramming mediated by innate immune memory. Here, we present a protocol for analyzing BCG-induced trained immunity in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). We describe steps for preparing BCG single bacterial suspensions, isolating BMDM cells, and the training process. This protocol can assist researchers to conveniently utilize BMDM cells to study trained immunity.
L10:Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), the only licensed tuberculosis (TB) vaccine, has been widely used worldwide to prevent TB since it was first administered to humans in 1921. 2  It has been discovered that the BCG vaccination provides non-specific protection against cancers, autoimmune disorders, and other infectious diseases in the last century. 3  Intravesical instillation of BCG for the treatment of bladder cancer is undoubtedly the most successful application of BCG for non-specific protection. 4  Recently, it has been found that BCG can enhance the response of innate immune cells (e.g., macrophages) to secondary stimuli by reprogramming their metabolism and epigenetic modifications, a phenomenon that has been named “trained immunity”. 5  Trained immunity is thought to be one of the mechanisms of BCG-induced nonspecific protection, 6  and the activation of glycolysis and glutamine metabolism in BCG-trained macrophages is critical for functional remodeling. 7  Recently, we compared differences in the ability of different BCG strains to induce trained immunity by constructing  in vivo  and  in vitro  models. 1  Here, we will detail the model of BCG-induced trained immunity of B
L32:Preparation and culture of BMDM from mice
L47: 17. Discard the medium, wash the dish with 5 mL of PBS, and add 3 mL of trypsin-EDTA to detach the BMDM cells at 37°C for 5 min. 18. Add 3 mL of cell culture medium to terminate digestion, collect the digested cells with a pipette and centrifuge at 500×  g  for 5 min. 19. Discard the supernatant, resuspend the cells with cell culture medium and counted. 20. Prepare a suspension of 3×10 5  cells per mL in medium containing M-CSF (50 ng/mL). Add 300 μL of cell suspension per well into flat-bottomed 48-well cell culture plate (9 ×10 4  cells/well) and incubate overnight to let the BMDM cells adhere. 
L55:Induction of trained immunity in BMDM cells  in vitro
L56:Figure 3 Cytokine production by BCG-trained BMDM cells upon LPS restimulation (A) Schematic diagram of trained immunity in BMDM cells. (B) Cytokine profiles in control and BCG-trained BMDMs upon LPS restimulation. Unpaired  t  test was used to compare groups: ∗∗∗  P  < 0.001. ∗∗∗∗  P  < 0.0001. Values are expressed as mean ± SD.
L57:25. Prepare a BCG suspension of 3 × 10 5  CFU per mL in medium containing M-CSF (50 ng/mL) ( Figure 3 A). Figure 3 Cytokine production by BCG-trained BMDM cells upon LPS restimulation (A) Schematic diagram of trained immunity in BMDM cells. (B) Cytokine profiles in control and BCG-trained BMDMs upon LPS restimulation. Unpaired  t  test was used to compare groups: ∗∗∗  P  < 0.001. ∗∗∗∗  P  < 0.0001. Values are expressed as mean ± SD. 26. Take the cell culture plate and discard the cell culture medium. Add 300 μL of BCG suspension per well into flat-bottomed 48-well cell culture plate and incubate at 37°C 5% CO 2  for 24 h. The control group (Con) was added 300 μL of medium containing M-CSF (50 ng/mL).
L70: Note:  BMDM and BCG single bacterial suspensions should not be stored for future use.
L72:Herein, we describe the detailed protocol for determining BCG-induced trained immunity using murine BMDM cells. Firstly, the single bacterial suspension preparation protocol improves the reliability and reproductivity of BCG’s stimulation ( Figure 1 ). Then, a standard murine BMDM differentiation method was used to obtain naïve macrophages derived from the bone marrow ( Figure 2 ). As a result, high levels of inflammatory cytokines, which were regarded as surrogates of trained immunity, were detected in BCG-trained BMDM.
L74:This  in vitro  method of inducing trained immunity may not reflect the complexity of  in vivo  experiments. The protocol is optimized for mouse BMDM cells and may require further adaptation and optimization regarding scheduling concentrations for models with other cell types and donors.
L109:9 Toda G. Yamauchi T. Kadowaki T. Ueki K. Preparation and culture of bone marrow-derived macrophages from mice for functional analysis STAR Protoc. 2 2021 100246 10.1016/j.xpro.2020.100246
[99ms]
