L1:Protocol for isolating and characterizing extracellular vesicles by ultracentrifugation from bone marrow-derived macrophages
L5:Extracellular vesicles (EVs) enable the transmission of crucial molecular components between the parental and recipient cells. Macrophages can polarize into two distinct macrophage phenotypes, thereby exerting diverse effects on recipient cells. Here, we present a protocol for the direct isolation of EVs from bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) using ultracentrifugation. We describe steps for culturing BMDMs and macrophage polarization. We then detail procedures for further characterizing the isolated EVs using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), western blotting, and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA).
L9:Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) are considered crucial carriers that mediate the immunoregulatory functions of macrophages, influence the microenvironment, and participate in intercellular communication. Investigating the effects of EVs from BMDMs under different polarization states on downstream cells (such as other immune cells, tumor cells, endothelial cells, etc.) is crucial for elucidating the pathophysiological mechanisms related to macrophages. Here, we provide a comprehensive protocol for isolating EVs by ultracentrifugation from mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages, followed by further characterization of the isolated EVs using transmission electron microscopy, western blotting, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. We have applied this protocol to directly isolate EVs from BMDMs using ultracentrifugation and characterize them. This protocol can also be utilized for isolating and characterizing EVs derived from other cell types. Furthermore, the generation and culture of BMDMs in this protocol are equally suitable for investigating the roles of macrophages in various diseases.
L26:Here, we describe the media components used to culture bone marrow-derived macrophages. BMDMs media Reagent Stock concentration Final concentration Amount DMEM high glucose medium N/A N/A 445 mL Certified Fetal Bovine Serum N/A 10% 50 mL Penicillin-Streptomycin Solution 10,000 U/mL 100 U/mL 5 mL Total N/A 500 mL Store at 4°C for up to 14 days.
L27:Premix all of the above BMDMs media additives and sterilize them through a 0.22 μm filtration system. When preparing the culture medium, it is important to use EV-depleted FBS. FBS contains EVs, which can contaminate cell-derived EVs and may interfere with downstream analysis. 1
L29:Generation of BMDMs
L32:Figure 1 Generation of BMDMs overview Illustrative BMDMs generation overview (by Figdraw).
L33:This step details how to generate bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) ( Figure 1 ). 1. Euthanize C57BL/6 mice (approximately 8–10 weeks old), spray 75% ethanol on the abdomen and lower regions of the mice, and place in a supine position.  Troubleshooting . 2. Eliminate the muscles and connective tissue carefully following separating the whole leg bones with scissors. Note:  Gauze can be used to assist in the separation of the connective tissue and muscles of the leg bones. 3. Use scissors to gently cut along the area above the femoral greater trochanter and below the ankle joint. 4. Cut the knee joint, separate the tibia and femur. Note:  Do not break the bones in steps 3 and 4, maintain the integrity of the bone marrow cavity. 5. Add an appropriate amount of 75% ethanol to a 10 cm diameter cell culture dish in advance, transfer the bones into it, and soak for 5 min. 6. Take another 10 cm cell culture dish and add 10 mL DMEM medium (without FBS) into it. 7. After rinsing the tibia and femur with an appropriate amount of DMEM medium (without FBS) ( Figure 2 A), place the bones into the dish from step 6. Figure 2 Treatment of leg bones (A) Rinse the tibia and femur with an ap
L36:Macrophages exhibit remarkable plasticity. Various stimulation conditions, such as oxidized phospholipids, hypoxic environments, and metabolic products, can induce macrophages to polarize into distinct macrophage phenotypes with unique markers and functional characteristics, thereby exerting diverse effects on recipient cells. Among these, classically activated macrophages (M1) and alternatively activated macrophages (M2) represent the most classical and extensively studied subtypes. This section focuses on the M1/M2 classification to describe the polarization of macrophages. 20. If the cell confluency of BMDMs cultured for 6–7 days in step 19 reaches approximately 70%–80%, rinse with sterile 37°C PBS after discarding the medium in the dish. a. Preheat sterile PBS in a 37°C water bath. b. Aspirate and discard the medium (containing 10% FBS and 30 ng/mL M-CSF) from the 10 cm cell culture dish. c. Add PBS and repeat the washing step 2–3 times. Note:  Perform rinsing gently to avoid cell detachment. 21. Add 10 mL of preheated (37°C) DMEM medium (without FBS) to each 10 cm cell culture dish and incubate in a cell culture incubator for a minimum of 6 h to as long as 12 h. Note:  The
L39:In this part of the protocol, differential centrifugation and ultracentrifugation are used to isolate EVs from BMDMs. The principle involving separating EVs, cellular components, and impurity particles is to exploit key parameters, including size and density. 24. Allow the centrifuge to cool to 4°C. 25. Discard the medium from the polarized macrophages, replace it with fresh DMEM medium with 10% EV-depleted FBS, and culture for 24 h. The medium is collected in a 50 mL centrifuge tube and centrifuged at 300 ×  g  at 4°C for 10 min to precipitate the cells.  Troubleshooting . 26. Gently transfer the supernatant to a new 50 mL centrifuge tube and discard the pellet. Note:  It is recommended to use a pipette to transfer the supernatant and avoid touching the pellet. 27. Centrifuge the supernatant at 2000 ×  g  for 15 min at 4°C. CRITICAL:  This step aims to maximally remove dead cells and cell debris. 28. Carefully transfer the supernatant to a new centrifuge tube and discard the pellet. 29. Centrifuge the supernatant at 12,000 ×  g  for 30 min at 4°C. CRITICAL:  Be careful when transferring the supernatant in steps 26 and 28. It is advisable to retain a small volume of supernatant
L44:Figure 3 Flow cytometry analysis of BMDMs Representative flow plot identifying the differentiation of BMDMs analyzed by flow cytometry.
L45:Figure 4 TEM image of EVs from BMDMs EVs separated from BMDMs were imaged by TEM. Scale bar: 200 nm.
L46:Figure 5 Western blotting analysis of EV biomarkers The biomarkers of EVs from BMDMs were analyzed by western blot (TSG101, GM130, and CD63).
L47:Figure 6 Nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) of the EVs The size and concentration of EVs derived from BMDMs were characterized by NTA.
L48:Here, a detailed experimental protocol for the isolation and characterization of extracellular vesicles from mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). BMDMs are extracted from the leg bones of mice and cultured.  Figure 3  confirms the effectiveness of the differentiation into BMDMs. The cell culture medium of BMDMs is collected for centrifugation and ultracentrifugation, and then EVs are isolated from it. We recommend the use of further characterization analysis to evaluate the presence, purity, particle size, and concentration of the EV samples to further determine the validity and reproducibility of this protocol. The morphology of purified EVs from BMDMs can be characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) ( Figure 4 ).  Figure 5  provides a western blotting image, confirming the presence of EVs in the sample. The particle size and concentration of EVs derived from BMDMs are characterized by Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis (NTA). The measured size distribution of EVs is shown in  Figure 6 . It is worth noting that although we have used this protocol for studies mainly in BMDMs, our protocol is expected to be applicable to other types of cells as well. Figure 3
L51:Ultracentrifugation for extracellular vesicle (EV) isolation is an effective and reproducible strategy. However, compared to alternative isolation techniques such as size-exclusion chromatography and ultrafiltration, 4  the yield of EVs is relatively low, and constrained by rotor specifications and tube capacities in ultracentrifugation systems. The quantity of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) correlates with the number of leg bones, thereby restricting the application of ultracentrifugation. The culture time of BMDMs increases the time needed for EV extraction. Additionally, the duration required for EV isolation by ultracentrifugation further prolongs the overall process. In addition, each EV isolation method inherently contains a certain amount of contaminants, and ultracentrifugation is no exception. 5 , 6
L54:Low yield of BMDMs (steps 1–19).
L56:The quantity of BMDMs correlates with the number of leg bones. If the yield of BMDMs is low, the number of leg bones used for BMDM generation should be appropriately increased. In the process of taking mouse leg bones, the integrity of the bone marrow cavity should be maintained to avoid some leg bones being unavailable. In Step 8, when perfusing the bone marrow cavity with a 1 mL syringe, the cavity should be repeatedly flushed until the bone gradually turns white to fully collect bone marrow-derived cells.
[69ms]
