L43:Stromal cells, formerly known as mesenchymal stromal cells, are a heterogeneous population of non-blood forming skeletal cells in the bone marrow microenvironment (BMME). These cells include stem and progenitor cells with self-renewal and multi-lineage differentiation potential toward the osteoblastic, chondrocytic and adipocytic cell lineages. 1 , 2  Murine stromal cells have been characterized by their cell surface marker expression, genetic lineage marking studies, and single cell transcriptomic analysis. 1 , 3  We and others identify stromal cells by the negative expression of CD45 (general hematopoietic marker), B220/CD3e/Ter119 (B cell, T cell, and erythroid: Lineage marker: Lin), and CD31 (endothelial cell marker), 1 , 3 , 4  with positive expression of CD51 (extracellular Nestin +  stromal cell marker) 5  and variable expression of Sca1 (stem cell antigen-1). 6–8  Stromal cells have increasingly gained attention as important regulators of skeletal and hematopoietic homeostasis, where stromal cells play an important role in supporting hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). 1 , 3 , 7 , 9 , 10  However, current protocols to isolate stromal cells from bone marrow (BM) typically i
L95:To further define the stromal cell characteristics of BM and bone derived cells, we focused on SOX9 expression. While SOX9 is an important transcriptional factor for chondrogenic differentiation,  Cre  recombinase activity targeted by the SOX9 promoter was previously shown to identify undifferentiated precursors that can differentiate to tri-lineage subsets and CXCL12-expressing stromal cells. 22  To evaluate SOX9 expressions in the murine BMME cells we isolated from BM or bone, we utilized SOX9-GFP transgenic mice. SOX9 expressing cells were rare in whole BM cells but could be detected in bone-derived cells ( Figure 5A ). SOX9 +  cells were enriched in the CD45 − /Lin − /CD31 − /CD51 +  population and also detected in immature hematopoietic supportive cell populations like PαS (Lin − /CD45 − /CD31 − /Sca-1 + /CD140a + ) 4  and Pααv (Lin − /CD45 − /CD31 − /CD51 + /CD140a + ) 5  ( Figure 5B ). Next, we analyzed SOX9 expression in our ex vivo culture. Within Lin − /CD45 − /CD31 − /Sca1 + /CD51 +  cells, E-BMSC and E-BSC showed higher expression of SOX9 compared to BMSC and BSC, and bone-derived cells showed relatively higher expression of SOX9 compared to BM-derived cells althoug
L103:Stromal cells can technically be isolated and sorted from human and murine tissues, but these cells are heterogeneous and extremely limited in number (estimated at 0.001%-0.01% of marrow nucleated cells 26 ). The methodology to isolate highly purified functional primary stromal cells has long been a subject of controversy but is essential, since stromal cell purification is indispensable to precisely recapitulate their functional roles in BMME to explore their role in hematopoiesis, inflammatory states, and hematological malignancies. There are several previous methodological reports regarding ex vivo culture of primary mouse stromal cells. 11 , 12 , 19  However, these methods appear to underestimate the macrophage contamination in the cultures. We found that the morphology of murine macrophages in ex vivo culture can be distinguishable from the much larger stromal cells based on cell size although both cell types strongly adhere to the plastic surface and are inseparable with conventional trypsinization ( Figure S2B-D ). We suspect that significant macrophage contamination of stromal cell cultures may be inadvertently missed because macrophages are very small compared to stro
L106:Several reports explore macrophage and stromal cell interactions and their impact on their differentiation potential and their immunomodulatory effects in vivo. 37  In addition to extending these findings, the current manuscript highlights the pleiotropic impact of macrophage contamination to the ex vivo stromal cell culture. Our culture system revealed that macrophages undergo skewing to a CD206 +  M2 phenotype regardless of their source, consistent with prior reports showing that stromal cells could drive activated inflammatory macrophages to M2 phenotype polarization in ex vivo culture 38  via cell–cell contact as well as through soluble factors including PGE2 and TGF-β produced by stromal cells. 39  Despite some limitations of the ex vivo culture system, we identify the differential effect of macrophages from different sources (BM and bones) on stromal cell function. Together, these findings strongly suggest that purity of BM- and bone-derived stromal cells is of the essence when experiments intend to study stromal cell characteristics and function. We speculate that some of the lack of consistency in studies on murine stromal cells may be due to underappreciated contribut
[71ms]
