L50:Alveolar macrophages (AMs) were obtained by repeated brochoalveolar lavage with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) from C57BL/6 mice or MARCO -/-  and SR-AI/II -/-  mice after being euthanized by intraperitoneal pentobarbital injection. Brochoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) was immediately placed on ice, centrifuged at 200 × g for 10 min and the pellets were washed twice with cold PBS. Cell counts and viability were determined by using a hemocytometer and trypan blue dye exclusion. Cytocentrifuge preparations were stained with Diff-Quik, a modified Wright-Giemsa stain to allow differential analysis. All BAL samples contained greater than 95% AMs. AMs were adjusted to 1 × 10 6  cells/ml in DMEM conditioned medium (CM), which contained DMEM medium supplemented with 15% FBS, penicillin (100 U/ml), streptomycin (100 μg/ml), 10 mM HEPES, and 10 ng/ml of mouse macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF).
L52:The AMJ2-C11 cell line was the source of the J2 retrovirus used [ 30 ]. The virus was prepared as described previously [ 30 ] with some modifications. Supernatants from exponentially growing cultures of AMJ2-C11 were collected and cell debris was removed by centrifugation (3000 g, rotor GH-3.8, Beckman) for 15 min. After clarification, the supernatants were filtered through a 0.45-μm membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA), diluted 1/1 with DMEM conditioned Medium containing 6 μg/ml of polybrene (final concentration), and added to the primary cultures for overnight at 37°C.
L54:Primary AMs were isolated by BAL and stimulated to proliferate in DMEM conditioned medium at a density of 1 × 10 6  cells/ml in a 6-well plate (Costar, Cambridge, MA), and incubated for 24 h at 37°C with 5% CO 2 . Nonadherent cells were washed off with warm medium 6–8 h later. After an additional incubation for 24 h in DMEM conditioned medium, the nonadherent cells were washed off again, resulting in a population of cells with predominantly macrophage (>99%) morphology as determined with the modified Wright's stain. Adherent AM monolayers were infected with J2 virus supernatants mixed with DMEM conditioned media and polybrene. After 24 h, excess virus was removed and cells were exposed to a second round of J2 infection under the same conditions to improve transfection efficiency. Clusters of rapidly proliferating cells were evident ca. 10 days after initial infection. After 1 month, cells were grown in regular DMEM medium without M-CSF. The virus transformed cells progressively increased in number. Several AM cell lines rapidly growing in semi-solid medium (0.96% methylcellulose) were isolated and subsequently recloned by limiting dilution method. Three clones designated as ZK1
L70:AM : alveolar macrophage;  MØ , macrophage;  SR : scavenger receptor;  MARCO : macrophage receptor with collagenous structure;  MS -/- : MARCO and SRA-I/II-deficient;  WT : wild type;  BAL : brochoalveolar lavage;  CM : conditioned medium;  M-CSF : macrophage colony-stimulating factor;  DMEM : Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium;  Poly-I : polyinosinic acid;  DS : dextran sulfate;  TiO 2 : titanium dioxide.
[32ms]
