L11:We have previously described a simpler method for producing functional monocytes and macrophages from hESC  [8] . This method utilises the spontaneous differentiation of hESC into embryoid bodies (comprising ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm), followed by directed differentiation along the myeloid lineage by IL-3 and M-CSF, to produce a homogeneous population of monocytes (esMC), which can be further differentiated into macrophages (esMDM). These macrophages are phenotypically and functionally comparable to blood monocyte-derived macrophages (bMDM). However, although this method can yield over 1×10 7  monocytes (MC) from a 6-well plate of differentiation cultures  [8] , such high yields are generally only achieved once a week, for 1–3 weeks, after which yields dramatically decrease. Moreover, there is substantial variability in monocyte yield across different hESC and hiPSC lines. Serum is the most likely component of the medium to cause the tail-off in productivity and the variability between differentiation runs, as it likely contains many growth factors, not all of which are necessarily optimal for myeloid lineage maintenance. Therefore, to optimize differentiation, we sought 
L200:iPS-OX1-18, iPS-OX1-19 and iPS-OX1-23 were all derived in-house from  fibroblasts from a skin biopsy from a normal male donor, age 36 (see Ethics statements for use of adult blood and stem cell lines in Materials and Methods, main manuscript). pMXs plasmids encoding the reprogramming genes were obtained from Addgene (17220: pMXs-hc-MYC, 17219: pMXs-hKLF4, 17218: pMXs-hSOX2, 17217: pMXs-hOCT3/4, 13354: pMXs-mNanog) and were as used in the original paper by Takahashi and Yamanaka [1]. Nanog was included to improve reprogramming efficiency, as the lines were part of a larger study that included aged donors. The plasmids were packaged using the Plat-GP retroviral packaging cell line (containing retroviral gag and pol genes) and cotransfected with VSV-G, using PEI, to make iPS retrovirus vectors. Reprogramming was carried out following [1]; 50,000 Fibroblasts were infected on days 0 and 1with an equal volume of each virus supernatant,  plus 5µg/ml polybrene and spinoculation (1200g for 45 minutes at 16 o C). They were transferred onto ‘Pathology Oxford’ outbred mitomycin C-inactivated mouse embryonic feeder cells (MEF) on 0.1% gelatin coated plates (Sigma) on day 4, and from day 5 
[87ms]
