L13:Starting point for the present work was the assumption that the cell line MuMac-E8 represents a murine cell population with stem cell properties. Preliminary studies already pointed to the expression of stem-cell associated markers and a self-regenerative potential of the cells. The cell line MuMac-E8 should be examined for their differential stage within stem cell hierarchy. MuMac-E8 cells were derived from a chimeric mouse model of arthritis. It could be shown that MuMac-E8 cells express mRNA of some genes associated with pluripotent stem cells (Nanog, Nucleostemin), of genes for hematopoietic markers (EPCR, Sca-1, CD11b, CD45), for the mesenchymal marker CD105 and of genes for the neural markers Pax-6 and Ezrin. In methylcellulose and May-Grünwald-Giemsa staining, hematopoietic colonies were obtained but the hematopoietic system of lethally irradiated mice could not be rescued. Osteogenic differentiation was not detectable. Thus, it became evident that MuMac-E8 represents not a stem cell line. However, MuMac-E8 cells expressed several myeloid surface markers (i.e. CD11b, F4/80, CD14, CD64), showed phagocytosis and is capable of producing nitric oxide. Thus, this cell line se
L34:The hematopoietic potential was investigated by factor-induced differentiation-experiments on methylcellulose medium (MethoCult M3434 methylcellulose medium, StemCell Technologies, Vancouver, Canada), so-called colony-forming cell assay (CFC assay). 2×10 5  cells/ml medium were suspended. Then, 0.3 ml of this cell suspension was added to 3 ml MethoCult, mixed and added on a 35-mm HydroCell culture dish (Nunc; characterized by very low cell attachment). Some colonies were prepared with May-Grünwald-Giemsa staining. The cells were cultured for 12 days in an incubator and examined periodically using an inverted microscope (Axiovert 40, Carl Zeiss MicroImaging, Jena, Germany). After 12 days final microscopic images were made.
L70:In order to identify hematopoietic progenitor cells  in vitro , the methylcellulose-based CFC assay was used ( Fig. 4A ). This system allows the formation of myeloid and erythroid colonies from hematopoietic progenitors. Colonies in this assay showed a distinct colony formation and had a round shape. Comparison with exemplarily shown CFU-M colonies from manufacturer's instruction revealed a similar morphology, suggesting that MuMac-E8 cells belong to the monocyte/macrophage lineage. May-Grünwald-Giemsa staining of MuMac-E8 cells allowed to adhere in chamber slides revealed a typical monocyte/macrophage morphology ( Fig. 4B ).
L71:Figure 4 CFC assay after 12 days of culture. (A) MuMac-E8 cells were cultured for 12 days in methylcellulose-based semi-solid medium. The initial cell number was 2×10 5  cells (magnification 100-fold). Cells revealed a distinct colony formation. The colonies consist of numerous cells of predominantly round shape. By comparison with example images from the manufacturer's instructions MuMac-E8 colonies were identified as CFU-M. (B) May-Grünwald-Giemsa stained MuMac-E8 cells harvested from bulk culture and allowed to adhere in chamber slides.
L99:On the basis of  in-vivo  experiments in lethally irradiated mice, it was studied whether MuMac-E8 cells are able to reconstitute the hematopoietic system in mice. The analysis of the blood cell profile in terms of existing white blood cell count showed a strong decrease of leukocytes during the course of the experiment. Accordingly, MuMac-E8 cells in applied cell numbers were not able to reconstitute the hematopoietic system in mice. However, it can be assumed that this is not a methodological error. At the same time the repopulation of hematopoietic cells is possible by transplantation of bone marrow and bone-marrow derived hematopoietic stem cells  [13] – [17] . Only at the mRNA level these cells revealed some stem cell properties, but they did not show any  in-vivo  differentiation potential to hematopoietic cells. Hence, this data let conclude, that the cell line characterized in this work represents a new monocyte/macrophage or monocyte/macrophage precursor cell line rather than a stem cell line, which is less adherent than other cell lines derived from macrophages. For the first time, these cells could be clearly characterized by real-time RT-PCR and colony-forming cell 
L102:It can be concluded that the MuMac-E8 cell line has the potential to differentiate into macrophages based on the immunophenotype, the phagocytic potential and NO producing capacity of the MuMac-E8 cells. Macrophages, dendritic cells and granulocytes can arise from a common myeloid precursor through different stimulation protocols  [42] . However, neither GM-CSF nor IL-4 was added to the cell culture of MuMac-E8 cells. Because myeloid cells can show a high plasticity among which macrophages  [43] – [50] , it should be investigated whether addition of different stimuli, e.g. IL-4, GM-CSF, M-CSF or tumor-conditioned medium  [6]  to the MuMac-E8 cell line gives rise to distinct cell types.
[61ms]
