L14:Macrophages (Mø) are heterogeneous and multifunctional cells that are indispensable for the development and regeneration of tissues and organs, and also assist in the removal of pathogens invading the body. In adults, Mø are largely divided into two types: (1) resident Mø, which colonise tissues/organs at a steady state and perform tissue/organ-specific functions to maintain tissue homeostasis, and (2) recruited Mø or bone-marrow derived Mø, which differentiate from circulating monocytes in the blood infiltrating lesions in response to damage of tissues/organs. Resident Mø in adults were previously considered to originate from the bone marrow-derived monocytes that are gradually replaced by monocyte-derived Mø, which undergo tissue/organ-specific differentiation. Thus, resident Mø were regarded as the terminally differentiated cells that did not proliferate locally in colonising tissues in a steady state. However, evidence accumulated in the past decade has provided new insight into the origins of resident Mø, revealing that Mø in the yolk sac and/or foetal monocytes in the liver migrate to diverse tissues/organs during embryonic development, colonise, and undergo tissue/organ-
L19:Fig. 1 Propagation of liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in co-culture and subculture with their respective stromal cells in tissue culture dishes and their segregation using bacteriological Petri dishes.  a : Liver cells after passage 2, 21 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  b : Spleen cells after passage 8, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  c : Lung cells after passage 2, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  d : Primary brain cells 28 days after seeding (left panel) and brain cells after passage 1, 23 days after seeding (right panel) in a tissue culture dish.  e–h : Liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in bacteriological Petri dishes. Mø selectively adhered to the dish surface and non-adherent cells formed cell aggregates. Cell aggregates were removed by washing with conditioned medium except for the left panel of F.  e : Liver Mø segregated from liver stromal cells after passage 3 of subculture.  f : Spleen Mø segregated from spleen stromal cells after passage 5 of subculture.  g : Lung Mø segregated from lung stromal cells after passage 3 of subculture.  h : Brain Mø segregated from brain stromal cells after passage 1 of subculture
L21: Fig. 1 Propagation of liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in co-culture and subculture with their respective stromal cells in tissue culture dishes and their segregation using bacteriological Petri dishes.  a : Liver cells after passage 2, 21 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  b : Spleen cells after passage 8, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  c : Lung cells after passage 2, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  d : Primary brain cells 28 days after seeding (left panel) and brain cells after passage 1, 23 days after seeding (right panel) in a tissue culture dish.  e–h : Liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in bacteriological Petri dishes. Mø selectively adhered to the dish surface and non-adherent cells formed cell aggregates. Cell aggregates were removed by washing with conditioned medium except for the left panel of F.  e : Liver Mø segregated from liver stromal cells after passage 3 of subculture.  f : Spleen Mø segregated from spleen stromal cells after passage 5 of subculture.  g : Lung Mø segregated from lung stromal cells after passage 3 of subculture.  h : Brain Mø segregated from brain stromal cells after passage 1 of subculture
L24:The Mø were separated from the other stromal cells in co-culture according to their adhesive property to bacteriological Petri dishes, in which only the Mø should adhere to the dish. Within a few days of seeding co-cultured over-confluent cells, small round cells with a few processes, i.e. Mø adhering to the dish surface, were observed; cells of other shapes rarely adhered to the dish, and cell aggregates floating in the media were also evident (Fig.  1 e–h). These cell aggregates were easily removed by washing with conditioned media. The cell density of Mø was almost unchanged, with or without cell aggregates, in the dishes when culture continued for several days. We usually collected more than 1.5 × 10 6  adherent cells per 10-cmø bacteriological Petri dish.
L53:Co-cultured, over-confluent cells obtained from the liver and lung up to five passages, from the spleen up to eight passages, and from the brain up to two passages were used for separation of Mø. Cells harvested from a 10-cmø tissue culture dish at over-confluence were seeded in a 10-cmø bacteriological Petri dish (As One, Osaka, Japan) containing 10 mL DMEM-FBS. After one to a few days, when the Mø selectively adhered onto the dish surface and stromal cells formed aggregates floating in the medium, the cells were washed with conditioned media to remove cell aggregates. The adherent cells were then detached by 5 mL of 5 mM EDTA in 10 mM HEPES-buffered HBSS (HEPES-HBSS) at 37 °C for 10–15 min followed by pipetting. The cell suspension was passed through a cell strainer (BD Falcon, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) to remove cell aggregates, sedimented at 220× g  for 5 min, suspended in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA; Sigma-Aldrich), 2 mM EDTA, and 0.01% NaN 3  (BSA/EDTA-PBS), and the number of cells was calculated and used in experiments.
[73ms]
