L6:Macrophages are key innate immune cells involved in a broad spectrum of physiological and pathological processes. Macrophage depletion with clodronate-liposomes is commonly used to investigate  in vivo  functions of macrophages in mice. Here, we describe a protocol that combines the depletion of resident macrophages with the reconstitution of the mice with  in vitro  differentiated, lentivirus-transduced bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) in the context of an experimental sepsis model. This experimental strategy is easily adapted to other experimental designs.
L12:The depletion/reconstitution protocol that we describe here has several steps, including bone marrow (BM) cell preparation, lentiviral transduction of the BM cells , in vitro  differentiation of the BM cells into BMDMs, liposome-induced macrophage depletion in mice, reconstitution of the mice with lentivirus-transduced BMDMs, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge of the reconstituted mice. Because every step is time-sensitive, a careful coordination of each step is crucial for the success of the experiment.
L18:Most reagents can be substituted with a similar product of equal quality from a different supplier. L929 conditioned medium can be substituted with recombinant M-CSF.
L20:Preparation of L929 conditioned medium
L22:L929 is a mouse fibroblast line that secretes macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF), which is required for the differentiation of BMDMs from hematopoietic stem cells. Thus, L929 cell conditioned media are used to differentiate BMDMs (see  BMDM differentiation  step). 1. Culture L929 cells in complete DMEM ( Table 1 ) in 10-cm cell culture dishes at 37°C and 5% CO 2 . At about 80% confluency, replace the culture medium with fresh complete DMEM. Table 1 Complete DMEM medium Reagent Final concentration Amount for 500 mL FBS 10% 50 mL Penicillin-Streptomycin 1% 5 mL DMEM n/a to 500 mL Store at 4°C for up to 1 month Note:  If cells are seeded at 20% confluency initially, it usually takes 3 days to reach 80% confluency. 2. Three days after complete confluency, harvest the medium and then filtrate the medium through a 0.22 μm filter. The conditioned media can be aliquoted and stored at −80°C. Note:  Some cell death may occur at this time, but dead cells do not affect the quality of the conditioned medium. All cells and cell debris will be removed through filtration. The conditioned medium is yellowish at this time.
L23:The concentration of M-CSF in the conditioned medium is critical for the successful differentiation of BMDMs in the following steps. Therefore, it is recommended that the quality of each batch of conditioned media to support  BMDM differentiation  be tested by pilot experiments.
L24:The L929 conditioned medium can be substituted with recombinant M-CSF.
L33:Figure 1 Preparation of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) (A) Mouse long bones before and after the marrow is flushed out. (B) Representative cell images at several critical time points.
L34:The color of the bone changes from dark red to white when the bone marrow is completely flushed out (see  Figure 1 A). Figure 1 Preparation of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) (A) Mouse long bones before and after the marrow is flushed out. (B) Representative cell images at several critical time points.
L35:The amount of bone marrow cells to be obtained is dependent on age and genetic background of the mouse. Usually 6–8 week-old mice are ideal BM donors. 6. Gently pipette the PBS/FBS/BM mixture up and down several time using a 5 mL serological pipette to disburse the bone marrow. Then transfer the solution into a 15 mL conical tube and continue to pipette up and down several times. Place the tube on ice. 7. Lyse red blood cells. a. Centrifuge (1400 rpm) for 5 min at 25°C to pellet cells. b. Aspirate the supernatant. Add 5 mL Red Blood Cell Lysis Buffer and 1 mL FBS. Resuspend the cells and incubate for 5 min at room temperature to lyse red blood cells. Note:  Red Blood Cell Lysis Buffer is toxic to bone marrow cells. Including FBS can reduce cytotoxicity and increase cell viability. 8. Wash the cells with cold PBS. a. Centrifuge (1400 rpm) for 5 min at 4°C to pellet the cells. b. Resuspend the cells in 10 mL cold PBS, and centrifuge again (1400 rpm) for 5 min to pellet cells. c. Repeat the wash two more times. 9. Resuspend the cells in 1 mL of complete RPMI 1640 medium pre-warmed at 37°C ( Table 2 ) before adding to a 10-cm cell culture dish containing 6 mL of warm complete RPMI 
L38:In this protocol, we use lentivirus-mediated DNA transfer to modify the BM cells before they are differentiated to BMDMs ( Miller and Blystone, 2015 ). In our experiment, we transduced the BM cells with lentivirus that carries SOCS1 cDNA (SOCS1-Lentivirus), using GFP-lentivirus as control ( Du et al., 2020 ). We found that transducing BM precursor cells is more effective to deliver the gene into BMDMs than directly transducing fully differentiated BMDMs. 12. Add the 1 mL BM cells (up to 2 × 10 6  cells) into a new 10-cm cell culture dish containing 6 mL of complete RPMI 1640. Note:  Usually 1–5 × 10 6  bone marrow cells can be obtained from one mouse, depending on the age and size of the mouse. 13. Thaw lentivirus stock solutions. To the lentivirus solution (0.1–0.2 mL) add polybrene to a final concentration of 6 μg/mL. Incubate at 25°C for 5 min. CRITICAL:  Polybrene is required to increase lentiviral transduction efficiency. The underlying principle is that Polybrene can neutralize the charge repulsion between the cell surface and virions. 14. Add the lentivirus-polybrene complex to the BM cells in the dish at a M.O.I. of 10. Incubate the cells at 37°C and 5% CO 2  for 48 h.
L39:BMDM differentiation
L41:The transduced BM cells are differentiated into BMDMs using the differentiation medium ( Table 3 ). 15. After 48 h of culture, carefully aspirate the medium containing lentivirus and replace with the differentiation medium. Note:  Most of the BM cells become attached to the plate at this time. 16. Continue the culture for 7 days at 37°C and 5% CO 2 . Change fresh differentiation media every 2 days. Note:  After 7 days the shape of the cultured cells (BMDMs) appears longer and more oval-like ( Figure 1 B). Table 3 BMDM differentiation medium Reagent Final concentration Amount for 500 mL Complete RPMI 1640 Medium 70% 350 mL L929 conditioned medium 30% 150 mL Store at 4°C for up to 1 month
L42:Transduced BMDMs are GFP positive. The transduction efficiency can be estimated by observing the cells under a fluorescent microscope.
L55:Two days after clodronate-liposome treatment, the macrophage-depleted mouse can be reconstituted with new macrophages. In this protocol, we used lentivirus-transduced BMDMs. These BMDMs are delivered by intravenous injection through the retro-orbital sinus. Because endogenous macrophages will repopulate the depleted mouse within 1–2 weeks ( van Rooijen et al., 1989 ), there is a window of only 4–5 days in which the exogenous macrophages can be assayed in the mouse. Therefore, it is crucial that the experiment is planned so that the  in vitro  differentiation of BMDMs is completed and ready for use within this window. 27. Aspirate the culture media of BMDMs and wash the cells with 10 mL PBS. Add 5 mL of Trypsin-EDTA and incubate at 37°C for 5 min to dissociate cells from the plate. Note:  BMDMs are usually ready for use by day 7 of culture in the conditioned medium.
L56:An example of fully differentiated BMDMs is shown in  Figure 1 B. 28. Use a sterile cell scraper to scrape the cells off the plate. a. Transfer the cells into a 50 mL conical tube. Rinse the culture dish with 5 mL of PBS (pH 7.0) 2–3 times and transfer rinse solution into the tube containing the harvested cells. b. Gently pipette the cell solution several times to disburse cell clumps. 29. Centrifuge (1400 rpm) for 5 min at 25°C to pellet cells. Wash the cells with sterile PBS (pH 7.0) 2–3 times. 30. Resuspend the cells with 5 mL of sterile PBS. Count cells with a hemocytometer. 31. Centrifuge (1400 rpm) for 5 min at 25°C to pellet cells. Remove the supernatant, and resuspend the cells in sterile PBS at a concentration of 10 7  cells/mL. 32. Anesthetize the recipient mouse (macrophage-depleted) using isoflurane as described above. 33. Fill a 1 mL syringe with 0.2 mL cell solution. Use a 28-gauge needle to slowly inject this 0.2 mL of BMDM solution through the retro-orbital venous sinus. Note:  Each mouse receives 2 × 10 6  BMDMs. 0.2 mL of PBS can be injected as a control. The BMDM solution can also be injected through the tail vein. 34. After injection is complete, place the m
L59:The reconstituted mouse is an  in vivo  platform to study the exogenous macrophages. Thirty-six hours after BMDM injection, the mouse is ready to use for experiment. In this protocol, we used the LPS-induced sepsis model to study the  in vivo  function of the reconstituted BMDMs ( Du et al., 2020 ). 35. Dissolve LPS in sterile PBS (pH 7.0) at 10 mg/mL. 36. Weigh the mouse. Based on the weight, calculate the volume of the LPS solution to be injected to the mouse at 20 mg/kg body weight. Note:  For the LPS model, the ideal body weight of the mouse should be >18 grams. 37. Load a 1-mL syringe with appropriate LPS solution, and inject the mouse intraperitoneally using a 28-gauge needle. Note:  For injection, insert the needle at a 30°–40° angle with the mouse’s abdomen in the lower right quadrant. Once the needle has pierced through skin and peritoneal lining, angle parallel with the stomach to avoid puncturing organs. PBS can be used as control for injection. 38. Analyze the mice. Note:  The mice will develop hypothermia within a few hours following LPS injection, and up to 50% of C57BL/6 mice may die within 72 h at this LPS dose. LPS injection causes severe systemic inflammation 
L61:This protocol describes the procedure of macrophage depletion and reconstitution for a mouse model of experimental sepsis. There are several key factors that will determine the outcome of this protocol: the quality of the differentiated BMDMs (including the transduction efficiency of the BMDMs), the extent of macrophage depletion in the mouse, and the quick repopulation of the exogenous BMDMs in the recipient mouse.
L62:If the quality of the L929 conditioned media is good, differentiation of BMDMs is expected to be achieved within 7 days. The cell morphology can usually give some hints (see  Figure 1 B). If the cells are not differentiated after 7 days, it suggests that the conditioned medium is not functional and the cells should be abandoned. In our hand, the lentiviral transduction protocol can usually generate very high transduction efficiency (>80–90%) in the differentiated BMDMs.
L64:Figure 4 Forced expression of SOCS1 corrects the hyper inflammatory phenotype of YTHDF1 −/−  macrophages in mice (A) Survival curves of macrophage-depleted mice reconstituted with WT or YTHDF1 −/−  BMDMs transduced with SOCS1-lentivirus or Ctrl-lentivirus after LPS challenge; p < 0.0001 YTHDF1 −/−  + Ctrl + LPS vs. the rest. (B) Serum cytokine concentrations in macrophage-depleted mice reconstituted with WT or YTHDF1 −/−  BMDMs transduced with SOCS1-lentivirus or Ctrl lentivirus after LPS challenge. ∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01; ∗∗∗p < 0.001, ∗∗∗∗p < 0.0001, by one-way ANOVA. All data are presented as mean ± SD (adapted from  Du et al., 2020 , with permission from Elsevier).
L65:At the end, whether the depletion/reconstitution procedure is successful has to be validated by experiments. Here we use our study as an example. In the study we aimed to assess whether SOCS1 functions downstream of YTHDF1 in the regulation of macrophage activation. To this end, we derived BMDMs from wild-type (WT) and YTHDF1 −/−  mice, and then transduced these WT and YTHDF1 −/−  BMDMs with SOCS1-lentivirus or GFP (Ctrl)-lentivirus, respectively. We depleted macrophages from WT mice, and then reconstituted these mice with the SOCS1- or GFP (Ctrl)-transduced WT or YTHDF1 −/−  BMDMs. Finally, we subjected these reconstituted mice to the LPS-induced sepsis model. As shown in  Figure 4 , LPS challenge led to much higher mortality (100% death within 24 h) in the mice receiving Ctrl-transduced YTHDF1 −/−  BMDMs compared with the mice receiving Ctrl-transduced WT BMDMs ( Figure 4 A), and this is expected. The mice receiving Ctrl-transduced YTHDF1 −/−  BMDMs produced much higher levels of serum inflammatory cytokines than the mice receiving Ctrl-transduced WT BMDMs ( Figure 4 B), and this is also expected. These observations indicate that the lentivirus transduction and the depletion/
L71:Cell contamination (Bone marrow isolations and  BMDM differentiation  steps)
L83:Low yield of BMDMs ( BMDM differentiation  steps)
L85:Select a mouse at least 8-week old for bone marrow isolation. Make sure to completely flush out the bone marrow to collect all BM cells. Macrophage numbers are dependent on mouse age and genetic background. Approximately 5 × 10 6  BMDMs can be derived from an 8–12 week old C57BL/6 mouse. BMDM yield is considered low if less than 1 × 10 6  BMDMs are obtained from one mouse.
L89:Make sure to suspend BMDMs in PBS well before intravenous injection. This is best done just prior to injection as BMDMs can clump quickly. Cell clumps can block blood flow leading to death.
L91:No difference is seen in experimental outcomes after BMDM reconstitution (Macrophage reconstitution steps)
L93:This suggests some procedure is not working. Use PBS as a reconstitution control to sort out whether BMDM reconstitution is working. Use unmodified BMDMs as a control to figure out whether lentiviral transduction is working.
L111:Miller M.R. Blystone S.D. Reliable and inexpensive expression of large, tagged, exogenous proteins in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages using a second generation lentiviral system J. Biol. Methods 2 2015 e23 26457319
[24ms]
