L10:Macrophages (Mø) are multifunctional cells that are indispensable for the development and regeneration of tissues/organs. They also assist in the removal of pathogens invading the body. Mø reside in various tissues/organs as heterogeneous populations demonstrating tissue/organ-specific functions. Majorly, two types of Mø function in adults: (1) tissue-resident Mø, which colonise tissues/organs at a steady state and perform tissue/organ-specific functions to maintain the tissue/organ homeostasis, and (2) recruited Mø, which originate from bone marrow-derived monocytes that circulate in the blood and infiltrate lesions in response to damage of the tissues/organs. Previously, all tissue-resident Mø in adults were considered to originate from the bone marrow-derived monocytes that undergo tissue/organ-specific differentiation. However, based on the recently accumulated evidence, majority of the tissue-resident Mø in adults are believed to originate from foetal Mø in the yolk sac and/or foetal monocytes in the foetal liver. These foetal precursors migrate to diverse tissues/organs during embryonic development, colonise in tissue/organ-specific microenvironments (niches), and then un
L11:Two types of tissue-resident Mø—alveolar Mø and lung interstitial Mø—can colonise in the lung. Alveolar Mø are well-defined and representative Mø that originate from foetal monocytes in the foetal liver, which populate the alveolar and airway lumen, are nursed by alveolar epithelial cells as the niche, and play important functions in surfactant homeostasis, pathogen clearance and immune homeostasis [ 9 , 10 , 11 ]. On the other hand, lung interstitial Mø are non-alveolar Mø that populate the lung interstitium such as the bronchial and alveolar interstitium. They were not well-defined owing to the technical challenges encountered during cell preparation and fallacious conception as being intermediate cells in the development of AMø, albeit they have recently gained attention owing to their immunoregulatory functions [ 12 , 13 ]. It is thus evident that lung interstitial Mø in adult mice are composed of two distinct subpopulations: cells originating from foetal Mø in the yolk sac and cells from bone-marrow blood monocytes [ 14 ]; and cells located in the bronchial interstitium that demonstrate self-renewal property and cells located in the alveolar interstitium that are gradually
L21:Co-cultured lung tissue-resident Mø were separated from lung interstitial cells according to the method by Ogawa et al. [ 8 ]. Briefly, co-cultured, over-confluent cells up to four passages (usually 1−2 passages) were used for the separation of Mø. The over-confluent cells harvested from a 10-cm tissue-culture dish were seeded in a 5.5 cm or 10 cm bacteriological Petri dish (1-7484-01, As One) containing DMEM-FBS. After several hours to 1 day, when the Mø selectively adhered onto the dish surface and interstitial cells usually formed nonadherent cell aggregates in the dish, the adherent cells were washed with conditioned media to remove nonadherent cells and used for RT-PCR analysis. For phagocytosis analysis and flow cytometry, the adherent cells were detached with 5-mM EDTA in 10 mM HEPES-buffered HBSS (EDTA-HEPES-HBSS), followed by pipetting. The cell suspension was passed through a cell strainer (352235, BD Falcon, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) to remove the cell aggregates, and then sedimented at 220×  g  for 5 min, followed by suspension in Ca/Mg-free phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; 1102P10, Cell Science & Technology Institute, Inc., Yamagata, Japan) containing 1% bovine serum
L36:The propagated Mø were separated from the other lung interstitial cells in co-culture based on their different adhesive property to bacteriological Petri dishes, in which only the Mø adhered to the dish. Within a few hours of seeding co-cultured over-confluent cells, small round/fusiform cells with a few cytoplasmic protrusions, i.e., Mø adhered to the dish surface ( Figure 1 G,H), and cell aggregates floating in the media were also evident. These cell aggregates could be easily removed by washing with conditioned media. The cell density of Mø was almost unchanged, with or without cell aggregates, in the dishes when the culture continued for a few days. We usually collected more than 1.5 × 10 6  adherent cells per 10-cm of bacteriological Petri dish and used them for analyses to determine the features of Mø. To examine the niche of lung Mø propagating in vitro, we collected lung interstitial cells other than Mø in the co-culture using a different detachment behaviour between the two cells treated with low-concentration trypsin for a short time in the tissue-culture dishes. The lung interstitial cells separated from Mø, which were easily detached by the treatment, mostly compris
L58:Figure 1 The propagation of lung tissue-resident Mø in co-culture and subculture with lung interstitial cells in tissue-culture dishes and their segregation on bacteriological Petri dishes. Right panels ( A , C , E , G ) and left panels ( B , D , F , H ) show the lung cells derived from BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice, respectively. ( A , B ): Primary lung cells cultured for the indicated days after seeding in a tissue-culture dish. ( C , D ): Lung cells after passage 1 conducted 1 day after seeding in a tissue-culture dish. ( E , F ): Lung cells after passage 1 conducted 7 days after seeding in a tissue-culture dish. ( G , H ): lung tissue-resident Mø in bacteriological Petri dishes. Mø selectively adhering to the dish surface and nonadherent cells forming cell aggregates in the ( H ) panel. Cell aggregates were removed by washing with a conditioned medium, as can be seen in the ( G ) panel.
[35ms]
