L13:Tissue-resident macrophages (TRMs) perform organ-specific functions that are dependent on factors such as hematopoietic origin, local environment, and biological influences. A diverse range of  in vitro  culture systems have been developed to decipher TRM functions, including bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived TRMs, or immortalized cell lines. However, despite the usefulness of such systems, there are notable limitations. Attempts to culture primary macrophages often require purification of cells and lack a high cell yield and consistent phenotype. Here, we aimed to address these limitations by establishing an organotypic primary cell culture protocol. We obtained long-term monocultures of macrophages derived from distinct organs without prior purification using specific growth factors and tissue normoxic conditions that largely conserved a TRM-like identity  in vitro . Thus, this organotypic system offers an ideal screening platform for primary macrophages from different organs that can be used for a wide range of assays and readouts.
L15:macrophages; organotypic cell culture; tissue normoxia; Kupffer cells; microglia; alveolar macrophages; peritoneal macrophages; bone marrow-derived macrophages; tissue-resident macrophages
L18:Cell culture protocols have been developed to explore TRM function. Thus far, many studies have relied on bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), which do not per se represent TRM heterogeneity ( Bailey et al., 2020 ;  Stanley and Heard, 1977 ). Other approaches include oncogene-transformed cell lines ( Blasi et al., 1990 ;  Kreuzburg-Duffy and Macdonald, 1991 ), which allow an easy maintenance and a high cell yield, but often with an activated phenotype ( Bocchini et al., 1992 ;  Napoli et al., 2009 ). During the past decade, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and iPSC-derived organoids presented a novel opportunity to generate and study TRMs  in vitro  ( Lee et al., 2018 ;  Takata et al., 2017 ), although these challenging techniques require a high level of expertise and financial resources. Available  in vitro  protocols for primary TRMs rely on complex dissociation (e.g., enzymatic digestion) and purification steps (e.g., fluorescence activated cell sorting [FACS] or magnetic-activated cell sorting [MACS]). These steps can result in cell activation, as recently demonstrated for MG of the CNS ( Haimon et al., 2018 ;  Mattei et al., 2020 ). Further, even optimized cultur
L23:Figure 1 TRM-LCs are efficiently maintained in culture by a combination of supportive culture coating, specific medium supplementation, and tissue normoxic oxygen levels (A) Isolation protocol for TRM-LCs from brain, liver, peritoneum, and lung. RBC, red blood cell. (B) Absolute cell numbers of MG-LCs (yellow), KC-LCs (green), PM-LCs (pink), and AM-LC (blue) after 2 weeks in culture. Mean ± SEM is shown; cells per culture flask are shown, n = 8–17/group. (C) Bright-field images of BMDMs (upper row) and AM-LCs (lower row) are shown from day (D) 3, 6, 12, and 16 in the Incucyte system. One of two independent experiments is shown. Scale bars, 50 μm. See also  Figure S1  and  Videos S1  and  S2 .
L24:We generated MG-like cells (MG-LCs), KC-like cells (KC-LCs), AM-like cells (AM-LCs), and PM-like cells (PM-LCs) by plating single-cell suspensions of their respective organs ( Figure 1 A;  STAR Methods ). To verify the cellular composition of the obtained cell pellets for culture ( Figure S1 ), we found that the main myeloid populations included in the cell pellets were TRMs, except for the cell pellet of the liver, where granulocytes were more abundant ( Figure S1 B). Cells from each organ were plated in PEI-coated tissue culture flasks ( Figure 1 A), where the PEI coating effectively eliminated contaminating host cells and supported monocultures of TRM-LCs within 14 days. Figure 1 TRM-LCs are efficiently maintained in culture by a combination of supportive culture coating, specific medium supplementation, and tissue normoxic oxygen levels (A) Isolation protocol for TRM-LCs from brain, liver, peritoneum, and lung. RBC, red blood cell. (B) Absolute cell numbers of MG-LCs (yellow), KC-LCs (green), PM-LCs (pink), and AM-LC (blue) after 2 weeks in culture. Mean ± SEM is shown; cells per culture flask are shown, n = 8–17/group. (C) Bright-field images of BMDMs (upper row) and AM-LC
L26:To follow the culture development, we imaged AM-LCs compared with BMDMs over the course of 2 weeks after the partial medium change with an Incucyte system ( Figure 1 C). As the Incucyte system must be utilized at atmospheric oxygen levels, AM-LCs were imaged here. BMDMs reached confluence after 7 days, with all cells acquiring characteristic macrophage morphology ( Figure 1 C;  Video S1 ). In contrast, AM-LCs took much longer to develop into densely populated cultures. After an initially low amount of cell seedings and a high abundance of cell debris, cells that resembled macrophages appeared a few days post plating and proliferated in clusters ( Figure 1 C;  Video S2 ). After 16 days, AM-LCs were seen with typical macrophage morphology and the cells did not expand further.
L27:Video S1. Time lapse of cultured BMDMs over 2 weeks in the Incucyte system, related to Figure 1 Bright-field images were taken every 2 h. One of two independent experiments is shown. Scale bar, 400 μm.
L34:Next, we examined classical core macrophage surface markers and macrophage activation markers to exclude artificial activation  in vitro . In cultured MG-LCs, we found a slight increase in the surface levels of the glycoprotein F4/80 compared with the  ex vivo  isolated MG, whereas other TRM-LCs showed consistent F4/80 levels compared with freshly isolated cells ( Figure S2 A). CD115 or colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (Csf1r) is expressed on cultured and freshly isolated MG, KCs, and PMs, but was lost in AM-LCs ( Figure S2 B). Interestingly, major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) is not expressed by MG-LCs  in vitro  and MG directly isolated from CNS. On the other hand, KC-, PM-, and AM-LCs still expressed MHC-II but at reduced levels compared with their  ex vivo  isolated counterparts ( Figure S2 C). Integrin subunit αx (Itgax or CD11 c) expression was low in adult MG from brain tissue and undetectable in cultured MG-LCs ( Figure S2 D), while  ex vivo  expression of CD11c was maintained in the other TRM-LCs. Notably, CD11c was more highly expressed on PM-LCs  in vitro  than on freshly isolated PMs ( Figure S2 D). Sialic acid-binding Ig-like lectin F (SiglecF) 
L39:As expected, MG-LCs expressed  HexB  and  Fcrls  at elevated levels compared with all other TRM-like cultures ( Figure S3 C), KC-LCs expressed  Id3  and  Nr1h3  at significantly higher levels compared with other cultured populations ( Figure S3 D), PM-LCs expressed  Tgfb2  at a significantly higher level compared with other TRM-LCs but not significantly elevated levels of  Cebpb  ( Figure S3 E), and AM-LCs showed a significantly higher expression of  Car4  and  Siglecf  compared with the other TRM-LCs ( Figure S3 F). To exclude that these signature genes were not artificially induced by the different culture conditions of the TRM-LCs, we cultured BMDMs in the respective culture conditions and analyzed again signature gene expression ( Figures S3 G–S3J). Here, we could not detect the induction of specific TRM gene signatures in BMDMs through the applied culture conditions ( Figures S4 G–S4J), reinforcing that the gene expression profiles were rather a result of their host tissue origin. Hence, TRM-LCs can serve as a powerful surrogate system but do not completely conserve TRM identity.
L45:Figure 6 Tissue-resident macrophages show distinct phagocytic speeds and inflammatory gene expression upon stimulation  in vitro MG-LCs are shown in yellow, KC-LCs in green, PM-LCs in pink, and AM-LCs in blue. One of three to eight independent experiments is shown. Cells were gated as depicted in  Figure S7 . (A) Representative histograms of PE-pHrodo labeling after 5, 10, 15, and 30 min of TRM-LCs phagocytosis of PE-pHrodo-coupled zymosan beads  in vitro . (B) Quantification of percentage of TRM-LCs labeled with PE-pHrodo after 5, 10, 15, and 30 min. Mean ± SEM is shown; n = 3–8; ∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, and ∗∗∗p < 0.001. (C) Quantification of percentage of differently cultured BMDMs labeled with PE-pHrodo after 5, 10, 15, and 30 min. BMDMs in normoxia + GM-CSF are shown in white, BMDMs in normoxia + M-CSF are shown in gray, BMDMs in hypoxia + M-CSF are shown in dark gray. Mean ± SEM is shown; n = 3–6; ∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, and ∗∗∗p < 0.001. (D–F) Levels of secreted cytokines are measured in mean fluorescence intensity (MFI). Control is shown in blue, LPS in red, poly(I:C) in green, and zymosan in violet. Released cytokine levels of IL-1β are shown in (D), IL-6 in (E), and TNF-
L46:To explore the potential usage of TRM-LCs in different functional assays  in vitro , we first analyzed the phagocytosis dynamics of TRM-LCs by using pHrodo zymosan-coupled beads. TRM-LCs were identified as CD45 + CD11b + ; cytochalasin D was used as a negative control ( Figure S6 ). As anticipated, all TRM-LCs rapidly phagocytosed the beads, with each population demonstrating an increased number of pHrodo +  cells, up to over 80% after 30 min ( Figures 6 A and 6B). TRM-LCs from different organs showed profound differences in phagocytosis speed. After 5 min, PM-LCs showed a significantly higher percentage of pHrodo +  cells compared with the other TRM-LCs ( Figure 6 B). At 10 min, MG- and KC-LCs began to approach the higher percentage of pHrodo +  cells found in PM-LCs, whereas the phagocytic capacity of AM-LCs appeared to increase more gradually ( Figure 6 B). At 15 and 30 min, all TRM-LCs possessed near-equivalent loads of phagocytosed beads ( Figure 6 B). Our results suggest that PM-LCs are much faster at phagocytosing zymosan-coupled beads compared with the other TRM-LCs, whereas AM-LCs reacted more slowly to the stimulus. Of note, BMDMs cultured under the same conditions as
L48:Extending the functional analysis further, we evaluated cytokine expression and release by TRM-LCs upon treatment with different immune stimuli ( Figures 6 D–6F and  S7 ). We treated TRM-LCs and BMDMs (M-CSF, 21% O 2 ) with lipopolysaccharides (LPS), poly(I:C), and zymosan and analyzed the gene expression of  C-C motif chemokine ligand 2  ( Ccl2 ),  Interleukin-1 β ( Il1b ),  Interleukin-6  ( Il6 ), and  tumor necrosis factor alpha  ( Tnfa ) after 24 h. KC-LCs expressed significantly more  Il1b  after poly(I:C) stimulation compared with control, whereas the other TRM-LCs did not ( Figure S7 A). After LPS treatment, MG-LCs showed a significant induction of  Il1b , and similarly, BMDMs significantly upregulated  Il1b  upon LPS stimulation, whereas PM- and AM-LCs did not ( Figure S7 A).  Il6  was heterogeneously induced in the TRM-LCs and BMDMs. Poly(I:C) and zymosan significantly induced  Il6  in MG-LCs compared with control ( Figure S7 B). Upon treatment with LPS, KC-LCs showed a significant upregulation of  Il6  compared with untreated KC-LCs ( Figure S7 B). Even though all TRM-LCs showed elevated levels of  Ccl2  in all treatment paradigms, none of these treatments induced a s
L49:Subsequently, we aimed to analyze the release of cytokines into the cell culture supernatant 24 h after stimulation. We used LEGENDPlex bead-based assays to quantify the amount of secreted IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α via flow cytometry ( Figures 6 D–6F). As expected, in the absence of an inflammasome stimulus, we detected only very low levels of IL-1β secretion in TRM-LCs, most likely background signals due to IL-1β released by potential cell death ( Figure 6 D). In contrast, MG-, KC-, and PM-LCs significantly induced the release of IL-6 and TNF-α compared with untreated cells ( Figures 6 E and 6F). AM-LCs showed a significant release of IL-6 after LPS and zymosan treatment, but not after poly(I:C) treatment ( Figure 6 E). Of note, BMDMs did not show a significant release of IL-6 24 h after immune stimulation ( Figure 6 E) but released TNF-α ( Figure 6 F). Hence, TRM-LCs showed a distinct cytokine expression and release pattern to BMDMs after immune stimulation. Moreover, the cytokine induction varied between TRM-LCs from distinct host tissues. We can conclude that TRM-LCs could represent a cell culture tool to study cytokine release and inflammatory gene expression.
L57:Even though we demonstrated preserved signature genes and surface-marker expression across the TRM-LCs, we detected certain alterations compared with their  ex vivo  isolated counterparts. Transcriptomic profiling showed the preservation of a core macrophage signature, but several genes, including signature genes of the specific TRM, are regulated  in vitro . Hence, we cannot copy and preserve a full TRM phenotype with our organotypic protocol, but nevertheless provide a superior culture system to study functional intricacies across different TRM subsets compared with using BMDMs as an all-purpose solution. We found that TIM-4 is downregulated in KC-LCs, which could be due to the lack of endothelial cells and hepatocytes in the culture. Similarly, it was shown that MG lose the expression of surface markers such as the purinergic receptor P2ry12 or transmembrane protein 119 (Tmem119) in the absence of astrocytes and neurons ( Bohlen et al., 2017 ;  Gosselin et al., 2014 ;  Van Hove et al., 2019 ). Cell culture medium and its supplementation can also affect the marker expression and differentiation of cultured macrophages ( Kawakami et al., 2016 ), as previously reported for cult
L90:After sterilizing the skin with 70% ethanol the mice were placed under a laminar flow hood. The hind legs were dissected and femur and tibia were collected. To be sure that bones are not damaged, the hind legs were cut off at the trochanter major proximal of the acetabulum. Bones were kept in PBS on ice until further preparation. Femur and tibia were separated from each other, the fibula and tendons were removed. Prepared bones were then shorty washed in 70% ethanol and afterwards in PBS. Subsequently they were opened with bone scissors on both sides and the bone marrow was flushed out with 20 mL PBS using a syringe and passed through a 100 μm cell strainer into a 50 mL tube. Cells were centrifuged for 5 min with 400 g at 4°C. The supernatant was discarded and the cells were resuspended in BMDM media. Cells from one leg were cultured per Petri dish.
L92:TRM-LCs were cultured in T25 Flasks. T25 flasks were coated with 1 mg/mL polyethylenimine (PEI) (in a pH 8.3 borate buffer) 1 h at 37°C in order to obtain better attachment of the macrophages to the plate, afterwards the flasks were washed three times with PBS and cells were plated. Cells were cultured with 10 mL of the corresponding medium. Adult MG-LCs and BMDMs (hypoxia M-CSF & IL-34) were cultured in DMEM containing 4.5 g/L D-Glucose and L-Glutamine (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and supplemented with 10% heat inactivated FCS, 1% Penicillin-Streptomycin (P/S, Sigma-Aldrich), 20 ng/mL recombinant murine M-CSF (Peprotech) and 20 ng/mL recombinant murine IL-34 (BioLegend). PM-LCs, KC-LCs and BMDMs (hypoxia & normoxia M-CSF) were cultured in DMEM containing 4.5 g/L D-Glucose and 4.5 g/L L-Glutamine and supplemented with 10% FCS, 1% P/S, 20 ng/mL recombinant murine M-CSF. AM-LCs were cultured in DMEM containing 4.5 g/L L-Glutamine (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and supplemented with 10% FCS, 1% P/S, 20 ng/mL recombinant murine GM-CSF (Peprotech). BMDMs (normoxia GM-CSF) were cultured in DMEM containing 4.5 g/L D-Glucose and L-Glutamine and supplemented with 10% FCS, 1% P/S, 20 ng/mL rec
L129:Video S1. Time lapse of cultured BMDMs over 2 weeks in the Incucyte system, related to Figure 1 Bright-field images were taken every 2 h. One of two independent experiments is shown. Scale bar, 400 μm.
L134:Bailey J.D. Shaw A. McNeill E. Nicol T. Diotallevi M. Chuaiphichai S. Patel J. Hale A. Channon K.M. Crabtree M.J. Isolation and culture of murine bone marrow-derived macrophages for nitric oxide and redox biology Nitric Oxide. 100 2020 17 29 10.1016/j.niox.2020.04.005 32339668
[86ms]
