L1:Human and Mouse Bone Marrow CD45 +  Erythroid Cells Have a Constitutive Expression of Antibacterial Immune Response Signature Genes
L6:Introduction : Recent studies have shown that Erythroid progenitor cells exhibit a distinct immunosuppressive and immunoregulatory phenotype associated with the response to bacteria.  Methods : The objective of this study was to comprehensively explore the traits of human bone marrow Erythroid cells through protein–protein interaction network analysis using cytokine secretion analysis, and single-cell immunoproteomic analysis using flow cytometry, as well as the re-analysis of publicly available human and mouse bone marrow Erythroid-cell transcriptomic data.  Results : Our protein–protein interaction network analysis of human bone marrow Erythroid-cell protein-coding genes identified enrichment in the immune response to lipopolysaccharide, with Calprotectin and Cathepsin G being the main factors. We then mapped the Calprotectin to the CD45 +  Erythroid cells of both humans and mice via the analysis of the publicly available scRNA-seq data. Additionally, we observed that human bone marrow Erythroid cells secrete cytokines and chemokines, such as IL-1b, IL-8, and IL-18, which are also mainly involved in the immune response to lipopolysaccharide. We also found that human and mouse bone marrow Erythroid-cell conditional media inhibit bacterial growth in vitro.  Discussion : These findings suggest that both human and mouse bone marrow CD45 +  Erythroid cells possess the potential to combat pathogenic microbes and thus play a role in innate antimicrobial immunity.  Conclusions : CD45 +  Erythroid cells are a potent immunoregulatory cell population in both humans and mice.
L12:Despite the significant progress in understanding the pattern of erythrocyte differentiation, the molecular mechanisms involved in the immunomodulatory properties of immature Erythroid cells remain poorly understood. In this work, we decided to perform the systematic protein–protein interaction network analysis of human bone marrow Erythroid-cell protein-coding genes, investigate the cytokine secretome of adult human bone marrow Erythroid cells via Bio-Plex platform, investigate all the subpopulations and stages of Erythroid-cell differentiation by measuring the protein expression of Arginase 1 ( ARG1  gene), CD36, CD45, CD49d, CD71, CD235a, CD184 ( CXCR4  gene), and Galectin 3 ( LGALS3  gene) on single Erythroid cells using flow cytometry, perform a bacterial growth inhibition assay using Erythroid-cell-conditioned media, as well as perform the re-analysis of publicly available human and mouse Erythroid-cell transcriptomic data.
L14:2.1. Construction of a Network of Protein–Protein Interactions of the Immune Transcriptome of Human Bone Marrow Erythroid Cells
L16:2.2. Human Bone Marrow Erythroid-Cell Immune Transcriptome Data Re-Analysis
L17:We used CD235a +  human bone marrow Erythroid-cell immune transcriptome data (GSE231655) [ 13 ] to search for the gene expression of pathogen sensors. We preprocessed and normalized data as described [ 13 ], exported the normalized data, manually selected the pathogen sensor genes, log2-transformed the resulting data, and created a heatmap of the selected pathogen sensor genes via bioinfokit [ 17 ].
L18:2.3. Bone Marrow Sample Collection and Processing
L19:Bone marrow samples were obtained from healthy men and women. The age of the study participants ranged from 25 to 29 years, without any comorbidities or clinical signs of anemia ( n  = 8:  n  = 4—male,  n  = 4—female). We obtained written informed consent from all bone marrow donors participating in the study. This study was conducted in accordance with regional regulatory requirements and the ethical principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki.
L20:2.4. Bone Marrow Mononuclear Cell Isolation
L21:We collected bone marrow aspirates (2–5 mL) in EDTA-coated tubes. We isolated mononuclear cells from the bone marrow using density gradient centrifugation with Ficoll-Paque (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA) at a density of 1.077 g/mL. The centrifugation was performed at 266 RCF for 30 min, following previously established protocols [ 9 , 13 , 14 ].
L23:We performed magnetic separation of the bone marrow mononuclear cells using CD235a MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec, 130-050-501, Bergisch Gladbach, Cologne, Germany) according to the manufacturer’s protocols as performed previously [ 9 , 13 ].
L29:We used 50 μL of culture medium from bone marrow Erythroid cells ( n  = 8) in duplicate to quantify cytokines using the Bio-Plex Pro Human Cytokine Screening Panel, 48-Plex (BioRad, #12007283, Hercules, CA, USA) on a Bio-Plex 200 instrument (BioRad, Hercules, CA, USA). We log2-transformed the Bio-Plex data and visualized the detected secreted proteins in a heatmap using bioinfokit version 2.1.4 [ 17 ]. Additionally, we performed Gene Ontology Biological Process overrepresentation analysis of the detected cytokines using GSEApy 1.1.8 [ 18 ].
L30:2.9. Murine Bone Marrow Hematopoietic Stem-Cell Atlas Re-Analysis
L33:We used previously published murine Erythroid-cell immune transcriptome data (bone marrow—normal condition, hemolytic anemia, acute blood loss, and acute hypoxia; spleen—normal condition; and fetal liver—normal condition) [ 21 , 22 , 23 ] to perform an integrated analysis of murine Erythroid-cell immunome. We performed probe count normalization and sample QC in nSolver 4 using the  Rpl19 ,  Gapdh ,  Oaz1 ,  Ppia , and  Eef1g  housekeeping genes included in the panel. We then performed background thresholding on the normalized data to remove non-expressing genes. We determined the background level as the mean of the POS_D controls and removed the genes that were below the background level in all samples, as described previously [ 21 , 22 , 23 ]. Normalized log2-transformed probe count data are available in the  Supplementary Materials . We then used BulkOmicsTools ( https://github.com/Perik-Zavodskii/BulkOmicsTools , accessed on 12 March 2024) to perform PCA (principal component analysis) dimensionality reduction and created a heatmap of the murine Erythroid-cell immune transcriptome genes. To test for functional interactions of murine Erythroid-cell immune transcriptome genes, we used Cytoscape software version 3.10.3 [ 15 ]. We input a list of genes with the detected expression in all samples, removed singleton genes and genes associated with cell division and metabolism, and imported a new protein–protein interaction network from the STRING database for the remaining connected protein-coding genes [ 16 ]. A confidence criterion of 0.8 in the presence of protein–protei
L34:2.11. Flow Cytometry of Human Bone Marrow Erythroid Cells
L35:A total of 2 × 10 6  bone marrow mononuclear cells were washed in PBS containing 0.09% NaN 3  and stained with BioLegend (San Diego, CA, USA) antibodies #125420 APC anti-mouse/human Mac-2 (Galectin 3/ LGALS3  gene), #306522 Brilliant Violet 605™ anti-human CD184 ( CXCR4  gene), #304328 APC/Cyanine7 anti-human CD49d, #334114 PerCP/Cyanine5. 5 anti-human CD71, #349104 FITC anti-human CD235a (Glycophorin A), and #MABF1611 VioletFluor™ 450 Anti-human CD45 antibody (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) according to the manufacturers’ protocols. We then washed the cells after 30 min of incubation at 4 °C in the dark with 0.5 mL of PBS containing 0.09% NaN 3 . We then added #423113 Zombie Violet™ (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA) to all samples before fixation. To analyze intracellular and intranuclear proteins, the #424401 True-Nuclear™ buffer set (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA) was used to perform fixation and permeabilization. After permeabilization, cells were stained with #369704 PE anti-human Arginase 1 ( ARG1  gene) antibody according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Cells were then washed with 0.5 mL of PBS containing 0.09% NaN 3  after 30 min of incubation at 4 °C in the dark. Compensation beads #424601 (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA) were used to compensate for fluorescence. Attune NxT flow cytometer gating software gated cells from detritus, singletons from cells, live cells from singletons, and finally CD235-positive cells (Erythroid cells) from live cells, and exported them as FCS files.
L36:2.12. Human Bone Marrow Erythroid-Cell Flow Cytometry Data Analysis
L39:We used the conditioned media collected from human and mouse bone marrow Erythroid cells to evaluate their antibacterial activity. Mouse bone marrow Erythroid-cell conditional medium was obtained previously [ 21 ]. We performed a bacterial growth inhibition assay using the  E. coli  NebStable strain (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA, USA). The bacteria were cultured overnight at 30 °C in LB broth diluted to an initial OD600 of 0.01 and mixed with Erythroid-cell medium (LBB medium 4:1). We used LB broth with bacteria as a positive control, LB with bacteria supplemented with 50 μg/mL kanamycin as a negative control, and LB without bacteria as a blank. The assay was performed in duplicate. The absorbance at 595 nm was measured using a Varioskan Lux plate reader (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA) every 15 min for 18 h. The plate was maintained at 30 °C and shaken continuously at 60 rpm throughout the experiment.
L41:3.1. Protein-Coding Genes Expressed by the Human Bone Marrow Erythroid Cells Form a Connected Net of Protein–Protein Interactions Involved in the Immune Response to LPS
L42:In this work, in order to systematically assess the human bone marrow Erythroid-cell immunome, we performed a protein–protein interaction network analysis using publicly available data via Cytoscape and STRING. We found the presence of a functional network of protein–protein interactions that were included in the “Response to lipopolysaccharide” Gene Ontology Biological Process Term ( Figure 1 A,  Table 1 ). In addition, we found a subnetwork of the aforementioned network that contained genes responsible for the formation of extracellular neutrophil traps—Calprotectin (S100A8, S100A9), Cathepsin G ( CTSG  gene), and Alpha-3 defensin ( DEFA3  gene), and thus for directly combating bacteria. We also identified other direct regulators of antibacterial inflammatory response, such as IL-1b, IL-8, and IL-18 cytokines and chemokines ( Figure 1 A).
L43:As we found the “Response to Lipopolysaccharide” to be the main gene expression signature in the human bone marrow Erythroid cells, our next step was to assess the means by which human bone marrow Erythroid cells could recognize LPS-bearing bacteria using the publicly available human bone marrow Erythroid-cell immune transcriptome data. We found that Complement receptor 1 ( CR1  gene) was the only pathogen recognition-related gene expressed by human bone marrow Erythroid cells that also had the same gene expression levels as the genes involved in the extracellular trap formation— S100A8 ,  S100A9 , and  CTSG  genes ( Figure 1 B).
L44:3.2. Human Bone Marrow Erythroid Cells Secrete Cytokines Involved in the Immune Response to LPS
L45:Among the genes that formed the “Response to lipopolysaccharide” gene expression signature were cytokines and chemokines, such as IL-1b, IL-8, and IL-18, which play a great role in the antibacterial inflammatory response. To check for the factual presence of the aforementioned cytokine production and secretion, we then performed a bulk secretomic study of normal adult bone marrow Erythroid-cell-conditioned media. Our analysis showed that there is indeed IL-1b, IL-8, and IL-18 cytokine and chemokine secretion, as well as MIF chemokine secretion ( Figure 2 A). These detected cytokines and chemokines were enriched in the “Response to Lipopolysaccharide” and the “Lipopolysaccharide-Mediated Signaling Pathway” Gene Ontology Biological Process terms ( Figure 2 B), thus confirming our findings that the “Response to Lipopolysaccharide” signature is the dominant among human bone marrow bone marrow Erythroid cells, even on the secretory level.
L46:3.3. Response to LPS Pathway Genes Is Expressed by the CD45 +  Murine Bone Marrow Erythroid Cells
L47:Next, we decided to use the publicly available single hematopoietic stem-cell (HSC) atlas data to check for the presence of the “Response to Lipopolysaccharide” gene expression signature in murine bone marrow Erythroid cells ( Figure 3 ).
L48:We observed all stages of murine bone marrow Erythroid-cell stages of differentiation—proerythroblasts (Pro Eb), basophilic erythroblasts (Baso Eb), polychromatophilic erythroblasts (Poly Eb), and orthochromatophilic erythroblasts (Ortho Eb). We also observed the  Ptp4a2 /CD45 +  erythroblasts (CD45 +  Eb) ( Figure 3 B,C).
L49:We found that the “Response to Lipopolysaccharide” gene expression signature ( S100a8 ,  S100a9 , and  Ctsg  genes, as well as the  Camp  gene, which was exclusive to murine Erythroid cells) was mainly found in the CD45 +  Eb, with some also found in the Pro Eb. Murine CD45 +  Eb also contained most of the  Tgfb1  gene, the expression of which is absent in the human bone marrow Erythroid cells [ 13 , 14 ] ( Figure 3 D). CD45 +  Eb comprised 14.5% of murine bone marrow Erythroid cells ( Figure 3 A).
L50:On the other hand, we observed universal  Lgals9  and  Mif  gene expression in the murine bone marrow Erythroid cells but not any Arginase ( Arg1  and  Arg2  genes) or PD-L1 ( Cd274  gene) gene expression ( Figure 3 D).
L51:We then decided to perform an integrated immunome analysis of murine Erythroid cells using the publicly available immune transcriptome data—normal bone marrow (Eb BM N), normal spleen (Eb Spl N), and normal fetal liver (Eb FL N) murine Erythroid cells, as well as the bone marrow post-acute hypoxia (Eb BM hyp02), bone marrow post-hemolytic anemia (Eb BM HA), and bone marrow post-acute blood loss (Eb BM ABL) murine Erythroid cells.
L56:The observed differences in the gene expression levels between normal bone marrow and normal spleen Erythroid cells suggest a tissue-driven polarization into antimicrobial Erythroid cells (bone marrow) and antigen-presenting tolerogenic Erythroid cells (spleen) ( Figure 4 D).
L57:3.4. CD45 +  Human Bone Marrow Erythroid-Cell Proteome Maps to a Calprotectin-Positive Cell Population Found in the Human Bone Marrow Erythroid-Cell scRNA-Seq Data
L58:Next, we conducted a single-cell proteomic study of the human bone marrow Erythroid cells to find distinct Erythroid-cell stages of differentiation and assess the studied protein–protein co-expression in them.
L59:To cover all known human bone marrow Erythroid-cell clusters, we studied CD235a, CD71 (common human Erythroid-cell markers), CD36, CD49d (Erythroid-cell differentiation markers), CXCR4, Galectin 3 (Calprotectin-expressing Erythroid-cell positive and negative markers, respectively [ 13 ]), and Arginase 1 (Arginase 1-positive Orthochromatic erythroblast selective marker [ 13 , 14 ]) protein expression. We also studied the CD45 protein expression on human bone marrow Erythroid cells due to its expression on the murine Erythroid cells that expressed the “Response to LPS” signature genes ( Figure 5 A,C,D).
L61:CD45 +  Erythroid cells exhibited the unique expression of the chemokine receptor CXCR4 (CD184) and the absence of Galectin 3 expression among human bone marrow Erythroid cells, which allowed us to map the CD45 protein expression to the  S100A9 -expressing human bone marrow Erythroid cells, the same as in murine bone marrow Erythroid cells ( Figure 5 C,  Supplementary Figure S2 ).
L62:Arginase 1-positive Orthochromatic erythroblasts comprised 20.64 ± 5.61% of human bone marrow Erythroid cells, and CD45 +  Erythroid cells comprised 2.19 ± 1.05% of human bone marrow Erythroid cells.
L63:3.5. Human and Mouse Bone Marrow Erythroid-Cell-Conditioned Media Inhibit Bacterial Growth In Vitro
L64:We then tested the antibacterial activity of the conditioned medium with human bone marrow Erythroid cells in vitro for 18 h every 15 min (1 part medium, 4 parts LBB) and observed complete inhibition of  E. coli  growth in vitro ( Figure 6 ).
L66:In this study, we conducted a systematic study of the immunome of human and mouse bone marrow Erythroid cells.
L67:Our cytokine production assay and protein–protein interaction network analysis of human bone marrow Erythroid cells revealed enrichment in the LPS response through IL-1b, IL-8, IL-18, MIF, Calprotectin, Alpha-3 defensin, and Cathepsin G.
L69:Our re-analysis of publicly available Erythroid-cell transcriptomic data allowed us to single out the molecule that could be responsible for microbial recognition in human bone marrow Erythroid cells—Complement Receptor 1 ( CR1  gene). We did not detect any TLR4 gene expression that recognized LPS [ 30 , 31 ], which suggests that the “Response to Lipopolysaccharide” gene signature is constitutively expressed and does not require LPS itself for its induction. Normally, Complement Receptor 1 allows red blood cells to capture and eliminate complement-antibody–antigen complexes from the bloodstream [ 32 , 33 ], which suggests that Erythroid cells can also recognize such complexes, as they have prominent  CR1  gene expression.
[24ms]
