L1:Protocol for the isolation and characterization of mouse alveolar bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells
L10:Here, we present a protocol for isolating and characterizing hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) from mouse alveolar bone marrow. We describe steps for combining anatomical dissection of the mandibular alveolar region with flow cytometry analysis for identifying HSCs. The protocol enables the isolation of HSCs from a specific bone marrow niche harboring an enriched HSC population.
L16:Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), located at the apex of the hematopoietic hierarchy, are essential for maintaining blood homeostasis. Recent studies have demonstrated that self-renewal and multipotency are mutually exclusive properties of HSCs and that distinct subpopulations of HSCs exhibit lineage biases, 2  such as those found in bone marrow niches, including the perivascular localization of Hoxb5+HSCs. 3  While studies have traditionally focused on HSCs derived from the bone marrow (BM) in the femur, tibia, and pelvis, substantial site-specific differences in HSC properties have been observed across various skeletal regions in mice. These site-specific HSCs can be valuable for targeted therapeutic applications, transplantation studies, and understanding the fundamental mechanisms of tissue-specific hematopoiesis.
L17:Our recent study reported that the alveolar bone marrow (al-BM) within the mouse mandible harbors the highest concentration of immunophenotypic HSCs among different skeletal sites. 1  The engraftment of al-BM HSCs is superior to those from the femur, tibia, and pelvic BM, as shown using transplantation assays. Additionally, the immune microenvironment of al-BM has been demonstrated from that of other skeletal sites, potentially contributing to the unique properties of al-BM HSCs. 4  These findings greatly improve the understanding of regional hematopoiesis and reveal a previously underexplored BM niche with distinct biological characteristics.
L36:Figure 1 Procedure for isolating mouse alveolar bone marrow (A) Anatomical landmarks for alveolar bone isolation, showing the mandible with an alveolar region (pink) and an ascending ramus. (B) The step-by-step dissection process showing the removal of masticatory muscles and isolation of the alveolar bone. (C) The dissected alveolar bone and teeth.
L37:Figure 2 Flow cytometric analysis and gating strategy for identifying hematopoietic stem cells Representative flow cytometry plots showing the sequential gating strategy for identifying HSCs in the alveolar bone marrow. (Gate 1) FSC-A vs. SSC-A to identify cells. (Gate 2) Singlet-FSC discrimination. (Gate 3) Singlet-SSC discrimination. (Gate 4) Live cell gating. (Gate 5) CD45+ hematopoietic cells. (Gate 6) Lineage-negative cells. (Gate 7) KSL (c-Kit+Sca-1+Lin−) cells. (Gate 8) CD34−CD150+KSL HSCs. The numbers indicate the percentage of cells in each gate. The plots shown are representative of data obtained from male mice.
L38:This section describes the surgical isolation and preparation of a single-cell suspension of al-BM from mouse mandible. This protocol differs from the standard long BM isolation protocol because of the anatomical complexity of the mandible. Moreover, this procedure can be performed for femur, tibia, and pelvic, BM isolation if comparative analysis is required (Niizuma et al., 2024). 1 1. Prepare surgical tools and materials: a. Place sterile surgical tools (scissors, fine forceps and fine scissors) in a sterile field. b. Prepare ice-cold PBS (Gibco, Cat# 10010-023) in a sterile tube. c. Set up a sterile work area with paper towels. 2. Expose the mandible: a. Euthanize 8–12-week-old C57BL/6 mice using CO 2  inhalation followed by cervical dislocation according to the institutional guidelines. b. Create a skin incision along the lateral side of the face to fully expose the masticatory muscles. c. Carefully remove the skin from the lower jaw to expose the underlying muscle structures. d. Open the mouth to improve access to the mandibular region. 3. Dissect the Mandible: a. Identify and carefully detach the masticatory muscles from the mandible. b. Remove the major muscle groups using surgical tools. c. Using Kimwipes, gently remove the residual muscle tissue that could not be dissected using forceps. d. Locate the temporomandibular joint and carefully detach it to separate the mandible from the skull. Notably, the condylar process serves as a key anatomical landmark for precise dissection. e. Extract the intact mandible while ensuring minimum damage to the alveolar bone. C
L44:When comparing male and female mice, the typical yield from male mice is 8.47 ± 3.71 × 10 5  cells per alveolar bone, while the approximate yield from female mice is 7.6 ± 2.69 × 10 5  cells. Comparatively, the yield from the femur, tibia, and pelvic BM (ftp-BM) was considerably higher. 1.2 ± 0.23 × 10 8  cells and 1.12 ± 0.34 × 10 8  cells were obtained from male and female mice, respectively, per combined ftp-BM.
L46:The analysis of properly prepared samples should reveal distinct cell populations with a clear separation between the positive and negative fractions. Representative FC plots displaying the sequential gating strategy are shown in  Figure 2 . The increased frequency of HSCs in the al-BM compared with the femur/tibial bone marrow (∼2-fold higher) is an internal validation of successful isolation. Poor separation of cell populations or unusually low staining frequencies may indicate suboptimal antibody staining or sample processing.
L94:1 Niizuma K. Morikawa S. Gars E. Xiang J. Matsubara-Takahashi T. Saito R. Takematsu E. Wang Y. Xu H. Wakimoto A. Elevated hematopoietic stem cell frequency in mouse alveolar bone marrow Stem Cell Rep. 20 2025 102374 10.1016/j.stemcr.2024.11.004
[84ms]
