L1:Small extracellular vesicles from hypoxia-preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells attenuate spinal cord injury via miR-146a-5p-mediated regulation of macrophage polarization
L7:bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; hypoxia preconditioning; interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1; macrophages; mesenchymal stem cells; small extracellular vesicles; spinal cord injury
L10:Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)-derived small extracellular vesicles (SEVs) are often rich in nucleic acids that play a crucial role in altering the phenotype and function of recipient cells (Carlson et al., 1998; Zhang et al., 2015). According to the literature, BMSC-SEVs can induce changes in macrophage phenotype by delivering microRNAs (miRNAs), thereby reducing inflammation (Zhao et al., 2019; Liang et al., 2022). Additionally, oxygen concentration is important for mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) proliferation, differentiation, and self-renewal (Hu et al., 2014; Zhu et al., 2018). Liu et al. (2020) demonstrated that SEVs produced by hypoxia-preconditioned MSCs (HSEVs) can further promote functional recovery after SCI.
L16:BMSCs were isolated from 25 SD rats (aged 6 weeks, weighing 150–180 g). Briefly, rats were anesthetized with isoflurane (induction concentration 3–4%, Lunan Better Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shandong, China), sacrificed, and soaked in 75% alcohol for disinfection. Rat femurs and tibias were harvested, after which the bone marrow was flushed out using high-glucose Dulbecco’s modified eagle medium (DMEM, Hyclone, Logan, UT, USA, Cat# SH30243.01) containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS, Gibco, Waltham, MA, USA, Cat# 10270-106) and 1% penicillin/streptomycin (P/S, 10,000 μg/mL, Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA, P0781) and disaggregated into a single-cell suspension. Cells were centrifuged at 300 ×  g  for 5 minutes, and pellets were resuspended in DMEM high-glucose medium containing 10% FBS, 1% P/S and inoculated into a 75-cm 2  culture flask (Corning, Steuben County, NY, USA) that was then incubated at 37°C, in an atmosphere containing 5% CO 2  and 21% O 2 . The growth medium was changed every two days. Passages four transferred into the fourth passage were used for subsequent experiments. Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were obtained from rat femur and tibia bone marrow using the method described above. Cells were centrifuged at 300 ×  g  for 5 minutes, then the pellet was resuspended in red blood cell lysis buffer (Servicebio, G2015-500ML, Wuhan, China) and lysed at 4°C for 3 minutes. Cells were then centrifuged again and resuspended in high-glucose DMEM containing 10% FBS and 1% P/S and cultured in a 25-cm 2  culture flask (Corning) for 6 hours to separate adherent cells
L58:BMSCs grew adherently and were fusiform or irregularly triangular in shape at 80–90% confluency ( Additional Figure 1 A ). Adipogenic ( Additional Figure 1 B ), osteogenic ( Additional Figure 1 C ), and chondrogenic differentiation ( Additional Figure 1 D ) of BMSCs was confirmed using appropriate kits (described in the Methods). Flow cytometry analysis confirmed that BMSCs were positive for CD90 and CD29, but negative for CD34 and CD45 ( Additional Figure 1 E ). BMDMs were isolated from rat bone marrow as described in the Methods and cultured until day 7 ( Additional Figure 1 F ), when their identity was confirmed by flow cytometry and their purity was confirmed by Iba1 staining ( Additional Figure 1 G ). SEVs and HSEVs were isolated from BMSC culture supernatants by density gradient ultracentrifugation and analyzed by electron microscopy, NTA, and western blotting. A typical exosome structure was observed by transmission electron microscopy ( Figure 1 A ). The NTA results for SEVs (average particle size: 84.82 nm, range: 52.25–149.25 nm) and HSEVs (average particle size: 84.04 nm, range: 50.25–148.75 nm) showed similar particle size distributions ( Figure 1 B ), and the concentration of particulates was higher under anoxic conditions than under normoxic conditions ( Figure 1 C ). Western blotting was used to detect the cellular markers CD63, CD9, and TSG101 in the SEVs ( Figure 1 D ).
L59:Figure 1 Characterization of BMSC-derived SEVs and HSEVs. (A) Representative TEM images of SEVs and HSEVs. Scale bars: 100 nm. (B) NTA analysis of SEVs and HSEVs revealed that SEVs from the two groups exhibit similar size ranges (50–150 nm). (C) The difference in particle concentrations between the two groups ( n  = 3). (D) Western blot analysis of the indicated proteins isolated from SEVs and HSEVs ( n  = 3). * P  < 0.05 (Student’s  t -test). BMSC: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HSEVs: hypoxic preconditioned BMSC-derived SEVs; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; SEVs: small extracellular vesicles; TEM: transmission electron microscopy.
L62:Figure 2 BMSC-derived HSEVs promote motor function recovery in SCI rats. (A) BBB scores at different time points after SCI ( n  = 6). (B) Representative rat MEP recording 28 days after surgery ( n  = 6). (C) AUC statistics for MEPs 28 days after surgery ( n  = 6). (D) Peak amplitudes of MEPs 28 days after surgery ( n  = 6). (E) Representative footprint and step diagrams from rat gait analysis performed 28 days after surgery ( n  = 6). (F–H) Base of support (F), regularity index (G), and stride length (H) results 28 days after surgery ( n  = 6). (I) Histological images (H&E staining) of longitudinal section of the rat spinal cord 28 days after surgery ( n  = 6). Scale bars: 250 μm. (J) Statistical histogram of spinal cord lesion area 28 days after injury based on quantitative analysis of H&E-stained tissue samples ( n  = 6). For A: * P  < 0.05, SCI + HSEVs  vs . SCI + PBS, #  P  < 0.05, SCI + HSEVs  vs.  SCI + SEVs. For C, D, F–H and J. * P  < 0.05 (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s  post hoc  test for A, C, D, F–H and J). AUC: Area under the curve; BMSC: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BOS: base of support; H&E: Hematoxylin-eosin; HSEVs: hypoxic preconditioned BMSC-derived SEVs; MEP: motor evoked potential; ns: not significant; PBS: phosphate buffered saline; RI: regularity index; SCI: spinal cord injury; SEVs: small extracellular vesicles.
L65:Figure 3 Effect of BMSC-derived HSEVs on local M1/M2 subpopulation ratio in the injured rat spinal cord. (A, B) Rat spinal cord sections taken 7 days after SCI were stained with anti-Iba1 (red, a universal marker for macrophages), anti-iNOS (green, a marker for M1 macrophages), and anti-Arg1 (green, a marker for M2 macrophages) antibodies ( n  = 6). Scale bar: 10 μm. (C) Levels of proteins encoded by M1- and M2-related genes in rat spinal cord tissue harvested 7 days after injury were detected by western blot ( n  = 6). (D) Concentrations of pro-inflammatory factors in rat spinal cords 7 days after injury ( n  = 6). (E) Concentrations of anti-inflammatory factors in rat spinal cords 7 days after injury ( n  = 6). * P  < 0.05 (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s  post hoc  test for A–E). BMSC: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; DAPI: 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; HSEVs: hypoxic preconditioned BMSC-derived SEVs; PBS: phosphate buffered saline; SCI: spinal cord injury; SEVs: small extracellular vesicles.
L67:We demonstrated that SEVs/HSEVs alter local M1/M2 subpopulations in the injured spinal cord. Next, we asked whether SEVs or HSEVs exert similar therapeutic effects  in vitro  as those observed  in vivo . To test this, mononuclear cells were isolated from rat bone marrow and cultured under macrophage colony stimulating factor stimulation for 7 days to obtain BMDMs. When CFSE-labeled SEVs or HSEVs were added to the BMDM culture medium, they were taken up by the BMDMs and were visible in the cytoplasm within 12 hours ( Figure 4 A ). LPS (50 ng/mL) was added to the culture medium, and BMDMs were incubated for 12 hours to induce an inflammatory microenvironment before the being incubated with PBS, SEVs, or HSEVs for 24 hours. Western blot analysis showed downregulation of iNOS and increased expression of CD206 in the SEV ( P  < 0.05) and HSEV groups ( P  < 0.05) compared with the findings in the PBS group ( Figure 4 B ), similar to the  in vivo  results. Cell immunofluorescence analysis revealed downregulation of iNOS and increased Arg-1 expression in the SEV ( P  < 0.05) and HSEV groups ( P  < 0.05;  Figure 4 C  and  D ) compared with the findings in the PBS group, with more pronounced effect in the HSEV group than in the SEV group ( P  < 0.05). Flow cytometric analysis of the polarization state of M1/M2 BMDMs showed that HSEVs exerted more beneficial effects than SEVs ( Figure 4 E ). These results suggest that HSEVs plays a more pronounced role than SEVs in regulating BMDM polarization toward an M2 phenotype  in vitro , further confirming the  in vivo  results.
L68:Figure 4 BMSC-derived HSEVs trigger polarization of primary macrophages (BMDMs) from an M1 to an M2 phenotype  in vitro . (A) Uptake of CFSE-labeled SEVs and HSEVs (green) into BMDMs ( n  = 3). Scale bars: 5 μm. (B) Levels of M1- (inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS]) and M2- (CD206) related proteins in different groups of BMDMs were detected by western blot ( n  = 6). (C, D) Levels of M1 (iNOS) and M2 (Arg1) macrophage markers in BMDMs from different groups were determined by immunofluorescence staining ( n  = 6). Scale bars: 50 μm. (E) Representative flow cytometry plots showing the percentage of M1 (Iba1 + iNOS + ) and M2 (Iba1 + Arg1 + ) phenotypes in different groups of BMDMs ( n  = 6). * P  < 0.05 (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s  post hoc  test for B–E). BMDM: Bone marrow-derived macrophages; BMSC: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; CSFE: carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester; DAPI: 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; HSEVs: hypoxic preconditioned BMSC-derived SEVs; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; NC: negative controls; PBS: phosphate buffered saline; SEVs: small extracellular vesicles.
L71:Figure 5 BMSC-HSEV-transported miR-146a-5p regulates macrophage polarization by targeting IRAK1. (A, B) miRNA sequencing analysis revealed abundant miRNAs in BMSC-HSEVs. (C) After overexpression or inhibition of miR-146a by lipofection, the miR-146a expression level in BMDMs from each group was detected by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. (D, E) After overexpression or inhibition of miR-146a by lipofection, the expression levels of proteins encoded by M1-- (inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS]) and M2 (CD206) related genes in different groups of BMDMs were detected by western blot. (F) Representative images and western blot quantification of IRAK1 and the downstream TRAF6/NF-κB signaling cascade in LPS-stimulated BMDMs upon administration of PBS, SEVs, or HSEVs. (G, H) Protein expression levels of IRAK1 and the downstream effectors TRAF6/NF-κB in different groups of BMDMs were detected by western blot after overexpression or inhibition of miR-146a by lipofectamine transfection. * P  < 0.05 (Student’s  t -test for C–E, G and H; one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s  post hoc  test for F). BMDM: Bone marrow-derived macrophages; BMSC: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HSEVs: hypoxic preconditioned BMSC-derived SEVs; IRAK1: interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; NC: negative controls; PBS: phosphate buffered saline; qRT-PCR: quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction; SEVs: small extracellular vesicles; TRAF6: TNF receptor-associated factor 6.
L84:Additional Figure 1 Identification of BMSCs and BMDMs. (A) BMSCs grow adherently and are fusiform or irregularly triangular in shape at 80–90% confluency. (B–D) Representative examples of the three-lineage differentiation capabilities of BMSCs after passage four. (E) Flow cytometry was performed to confirm BMSC purity. (F) Rat bone marrow mononuclear cells were cultured to obtain BMDMs on day 7 of M-CSF induction. Scale bars: 40 μm in A–D and F. (G) Representative images of BMDM purity as assessed by flow cytometry. BMDM: Bone marrow-derived macrophages; BMSC: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; M-CSF: recombinant rat macrophage colony stimulating factor.
[44ms]
