L1:Differentiating  Peromyscus leucopus  bone marrow-derived macrophages for characterization of responses to  Borrelia burgdorferi  and lipopolysaccharide
L9:Currently, most tools utilized in host-pathogen interaction studies depend on the use of human or mouse ( Mus musculus ) cells and tissues. While these species have led to countless breakthroughs in our understanding of infectious disease, there are undoubtedly important biological processes that are missed by limiting studies to these two vertebrate species. For instance, it is well-established that a common deermouse in North America,  Peromyscus leucopus , has unique interactions with microbes, which likely shape its ability to serve as a critical reservoir for numerous zoonotic pathogens, including a Lyme disease spirochete,  Borrelia burgdorferi . In this work, we expand the immunological toolkit to study  P. leucopus  biology by performing the first differentiation of deermouse bone marrow to macrophages using  P. leucopus  M-CSF producing HEK293T cells. We find that  P. leucopus  BMDMs generated through this method behave broadly very similarly to C57BL/6J macrophages generated with the L-929 supernatant, although RNA sequencing revealed modest differences in transcriptomic responses to  B. burgdorferi  and lipopolysaccharide. In particular, differences in Il-10 induction and caspase expression were observed between the species.
L16:The studies of  P. leucopus  transcriptomic responses to  B. burgdorferi  and LPS have largely been performed using tissues from infected animals ( 10 ,  11 ,  18 ,  20 ,  22 ) or skin fibroblasts ( 11 ,  24 ,  25 ). While powerful in providing initial descriptive data regarding the responses to bacterial stimuli, these methods have some limitations. Studies on bulk RNA sequencing produced from tissues harvested following infection have highlighted pathways important to host immune responses but lack the ability to attribute those changes to a specific cell population. Furthermore, the heterogeneity of these samples may bias the findings from sequencing toward bystander populations rather than the less abundant immune cell population, potentially producing a type 2 error in the analysis of the results. More specific inquiries into skin-derived fibroblasts have the benefit of greater sample homogeneity compared to whole tissues and are related to skin-based pathogenicity and  Borrelia  spp. transmission; however, they may not be representative of the central immune traits of the species because of their nature as a tissue-specific mesenchymal cell population. Notably, very few methods have been described to generate a specific immune cell population for the  ex vivo  study of host-pathogen interactions with  P. leucopus —although one study was able to isolate and stimulate peripheral macrophages following pretreatment of rodents with Freund’s adjuvant ( 26 ). Here, we describe the development of  P. leucopus  macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) secreting cells f
L27:L-929 cells (ATCC CCL-1) were cultured in DMEM +10% heat-inactivated FBS. HEK293T cells from ATCC (CRL-3216) were used to generate  P. leucopus  M-CSF-producing cells. HEK293T cells were grown in DMEM with 4.5 g/L glucose, L-glutamine, and sodium pyruvate (Corning MT10013CV) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated FBS (R&D Systems 1304537A). A lentivirus construct for the expression of  P. leucopus -M-CSF (JSB_Ec11_Csf1,  Table 1 ) was transfected alongside three additional constructs (JSB_Ec12_pMD2_G_addg, JSB_Ec13_psPAX4_Min, JSB_Ec14_psPRTT_REV,  Table 1 ) to generate lentivirus. JSB_Ec11_Csf1 was generated by cloning into pLK4. pLK4 CMV mYFP MCS IRES-Puro (SB_5266) is a modular variant derived from the pLEX-MCS (Open Biosystems, Grand Island, NY) in the Bunnell lab ( 28 ). VSV-G pseudotyping vector pMD2.G (AddGene Plasmid 12259) was developed by Didier Trono. The lentiviral packaging vector psPAX4 (SB_5804) was derived from psPAX2 (AddGene Plasmid 12260) by deleting the sequences encoding REV and TAT. The accessory vector psPRTT (SB_5805) was assembled by installing a synthetic gBlock (IDT) encoding REV-T2A-TAT into the psPAX2 backbone. Together, psPAX4 and psPRTT constitute a split backbone 4th gen packaging system developed in the Bunnell Lab. Two days post-transfection, the viral supernatant was centrifuged at 200 x  g  for 5 minutes, filtered through a 0.45 µm PDVF filter, and used to transduce HEK293T cells. This cell pool was then grown in 1 µg/mL puromycin selection to purify an M-CSF-producing population. M-CSF-producing cells were maintained, cryopreserved, 
L28:Bone marrow isolation and differentiation
L29:Rodents were euthanized with CO 2  and cervical spine dislocation following Tufts University IACUC guidelines. Bone marrow was flushed from the femur with sterile DMEM, as previously described ( 29 ).
L30:To generate  M. musculus  differentiation medium, L-929 cells were cultured for two passages. During the third passage, the L-929 culture was allowed to reach >80% confluency, and 2 days after achieving 80% density, the cell culture supernatant was collected and frozen at −20°C for later use as conditioned media for murine BMDM differentiation. Murine progenitors were cultured on 100 × 15 mm 2  plastic Petri dishes for 5–7 days in DMEM supplemented with 30% L-929 cell-conditioned medium and 20% FBS. Alternative differentiation was carried out with 20 ng/mL recombinant murine M-CSF (Peprotech, #315–02) in DMEM +20% FBS.
L31:To generate  P. leucopus  M-CSF, transduced HEK293T cells were passaged to approximately 50% confluence in the presence of 1 µg/mL puromycin and allowed to reach 80% confluency. The culture was continued for 2 additional days, and the supernatant was collected, filtered through a 0.22 µm PES syringe filter, and stored at −20°C for use in BMDM differentiation. Bone marrow from  P. leucopus  was differentiated in DMEM supplemented with 30% HEK293T M-CSF  cell supernatant and 20% heat-inactivated FBS in 100 × 15 mm 2  sterile dishes or in 6-well plates.
L50:For many years, innate immune research has relied on recombinant or cell line-derived M-CSF to differentiate monocyte cell populations from mouse and human samples ( 42 ,  43 ). However, these tools have not yet been validated and/or generated for use with  P. leucopus . Amino acid sequence identity between  M. musculus  and  P. leucopus  M-CSF is quite high (81.9% Identity) ( Fig. 1A ) ,  indicating that it could be possible to differentiate  P. leucopus  BMDMs in a culture media containing  M. musculus  M-CSF from the L-929 supernatant, as is frequently performed for  M. musculus  BMDM generation ( 42 ,  44 ). First, differentiation of  P. leucopus  BMDM was attempted by utilizing the murine M-CSF-enriched L-929 cell supernatant on flushed bone marrow from C57BL/6J  M .  musculus  and  P. leucopus . C57BL/6J bone marrow examined by phase contrast microscopy over a week of differentiation demonstrated changes in the morphology and an increase in density, consistent with BMDM differentiation; however, the same was not observed with bone marrow from  P. leucopus  ( Fig. 1B ). Thus, we conclude that  M. musculus  M-CSF is insufficient to differentiate  P. leucopus  bone marrow into BMDMs. We speculated that a  P. leucopus -specific M-CSF could have higher differentiation efficiency. To generate  P. leucopus  M-CSF, we transduced a human codon-optimized, pCMV-driven  P. leucopus Csf1  gene into HEK293T cells via self-inactivating lentivirus ( 28 ) ( Fig. 1C ).  P. leucopus  bone marrow was incubated with media enriched with the supernatant derived from  P. leucopus  M-CSF-
L51:Fig 1 P. leucopus -specific M-CSF enables differentiation of bone marrow into macrophages. ( A )  P. leucopus Csf1  shares substantial amino acid identity (81.9%) with  M. musculus  M-CSF. Differences in the amino acid sequence are depicted with red dashes. Gaps are depicted by white space. Identical amino acids are depicted in gray. ( B ) The L-929 supernatant is able to induce C57BL6/6J bone marrow differentiation into macrophages, but not  P. leucopus  bone marrow. Phase contrast microscopy was taken at days 0, 3, and 6 of the differentiation procedure. ( C ) Schematic of  P. leucopus  M-CSF generation. Generated using Biorender.com and the NIH BioArt Source. ( D ) Supernatant from HEK293T M-CSF  cells is able to induce  P. leucopus  bone marrow differentiation into macrophages. ( E ) C57BL/6J bone marrow cells treated with the L-929 supernatant or  P. leucopus  bone marrow cells treated with the HEK293T M-CSF  supernatant undergo changes in cell abundance and size. Flow cytometry was performed on a fixed volume of cells at days 0, 3, and 6 of the differentiation procedure to measure the FSC-A. ( F through I ) C57BL/6J bone marrow cells treated with the L-929 supernatant or  P. leucopus  bone marrow cells treated with the HEK293T M-CSF  supernatant upregulate  Cd68  ( F, G ) and downregulate  Kit  ( H, I ). RT-qPCR was performed 6 days into the differentiation procedure.  P -values were calculated by a one-sample  t -test comparing the log-transformed fold change values to a predicted value of 0. Panels B, D, and E are representative of four independent experiments. 
L53:In order to understand how  P. leucopus  BMDMs compare to C57BL/6J BMDMs in their behavior and response to pathogenic stimuli, we first wanted to ensure that technical differences in the differentiation protocols did not bias the macrophages toward different inflammatory phenotypes at baseline. To examine this question, we performed a small RNA sequencing experiment to compare the transcriptomes of  P. leucopus  BMDMs ( n  = 3) and C57BL/6J BMDMs generated with the L-929 supernatant ( n  = 3) under unstimulated conditions ( File S6 ). We found that principal component analysis could distinguish between the two species based on their transcriptome by the first principal component (56.52% of the variation), indicating that transcriptional differences across the cells exist ( Fig. 2A ). However, we observed no statistically significant differences in M1-like and M2-like polarization markers ( 45 ,  46 ) ( Fig. 2B ), leading us to conclude that the differentiation protocols generate macrophages that are sufficiently similar to enable direct comparison. While M1 and M2 macrophage classifications simplify the heterogeneity of potential macrophage responses, the use of these identifiers provides a useful heuristic for determining species-specific differences between BMDMs derived  ex vivo  from a naïve cell population ( 47 ,  48 ).
L54:Fig 2 P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs display similar behaviors during baseline conditions. ( A ) Principal component analysis can distinguish between  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDM transcriptomes at baseline. RNA sequencing performed on three sets of  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs and analyzed by principal component analysis. ( B ) M1 and M2 polarization markers ( 45 ,  46 ) are similar between the two species at baseline. Each dot represents the transcripts per million for each gene under baseline conditions. No statistically significant differences in expression were observed by performing multiple t tests on the log-transformed values with a Holm-Šídák test to correct for multiple comparisons. ( C, D )  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDM phagocytosis of  B. burgdorferi  and colocalization with LAMP1 phagosomes. Representative images taken 30 minutes post  B. burgdorferi  co-incubation. Scale bar represents 22 µm. ( E–G ) Quantification of microscopy does not reveal differences in  B. burgdorferi  phagocytosis (E) or phagosomal maturation (F, G) across species. Each point represents a single mouse, closed circles represent males, and open circles represent females. Bars mark the mean, and error bars represent the standard error of the mean.  P -values calculated by two-way ANOVA with Dunnett correction for multiple comparisons. ( H–K ) Analysis of  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J proteolysis ( H, J ) and phagosome acidification ( I, K ). Fc receptor-mediated phagocytosis of proteolysis and pH-sensitive beads brings beads to the phagolysosome where we observe increased ratio
L57:We further examined phagosomal maturation and activity in the species. We utilized a pair of silica bead-based systems with pH-sensitive carboxyfluorescein and dye-quenched bovine serum albumin (DQ-BSA)/AF594 conjugates to assess acidification and proteolysis, respectively ( 37 ). Co-incubation of the DQ-BSA/AF594 beads with BMDMs demonstrated a lack of statistically different proteolysis between the two species ( Fig. 2H ), while the pH-sensitive carboxyfluorescein beads revealed reduced acidification in  P. leucopus  macrophages ( Fig. 2I ). The similar levels of proteolysis between both species ( Fig. 2H ), paired with greater acidic activity in C57BL/6J BMDMs ( Fig. 2I ), indicate that while the proteolytic outcomes of the phagosomes in each species are similar, there are discrepancies in phagosomal acidification, which may be indicative of species-dependent differences in phagosomal maturation. We also performed both assays with C57BL6/J BMDMs generated with recombinant M-CSF and did not find a statistically significant difference between these cells and  P. leucopus  BMDMs for either phenotype ( Fig. 2H and I ), making it unclear whether this subtle acidification phenotype plays a role in driving interspecies differences—particularly with the small sample size used in these studies ( n  = 4). We found these processes were sensitive to concanamycin A (100 ng/mL) and cytochalasin D (10 µg/mL) in both species ( Fig. 2J and K ).
L72:To our knowledge, this work represents the first published use of bone marrow-derived macrophages for any  Peromyscus  species. Numerous zoonotic pathogens ( B. burgdorferi ,  Borrelia miyamotoi, Borrelia bissettii , Powassan Virus,  Anaplasma phagocytophilum ,  Babesia microti ,  Ehrlichia muris ,  Bartonella  species, and Hantavirus, among others) are confirmed or suspected to be present in  P. leucopus  as a reservoir ( 2 – 8 ), meaning that the host-pathogen interactions in this species have direct impacts on human health by enabling zoonotic spillover. Therefore, expanding the toolkit to study immunological responses in  P. leucopus  represents an opportunity to better understand how pathogens colonize and transmit through this rodent.
L73:In this work, we benchmarked  P. leucopus  BMDM behavior to the well-studied C57BL/6 J  M. musculus  strain. We determined that M-CSF secreted by HEK293T M-CSF  was sufficient to differentiate BMDMs from  P. leucopus  in a manner similar to L-929 conditioned media used on  M. musculus  BMDMs. We qualified this by changes in cell size, expression of genes related to cell markers  Cd68  and  Kit , and visual comparisons by phase contrast microscopy. This novel HEK293T M-CSF  cell pool will be instrumental for future differentiation of  P. leucopus  monocytes for the study of  Borrelial  infection as well as other zoonotic pathogens that canonically infect  P. leucopus . While the application of this method is in its infancy, these results are an important step for utilizing  P. leucopus  as a model organism in a research setting.
L77:Bacterial strain is another important consideration for immune stimulation. The  B. burgdorferi  B31 wild-type strain is a common choice for performing bacterial stimulations; however, it may not be representative of the  B. burgdorferi  strains that have co-evolved with  P. leucopus . Recent work has demonstrated that different  B. burgdorferi  lineages are more or less likely to successfully use  P. leucopus  as a reservoir ( 15 ,  24 ,  58 ), which correlates with  in vitro  phenotypes ( 24 ). Thus, future work may benefit from screening divergent responses of these macrophages to different  B. burgdorferi  strains. Beyond  B. burgdorferi , other zoonotic pathogens (Powassan virus,  Anaplasma phagocytophilum , and  Ehrlichia  spp.) utilize phagocytes during host colonization and pathogenesis ( 6 ,  59 ,  60 ), meaning these tools could be used to better understand their interactions with  P. leucopus . In particular, leveraging intraspecies natural host diversity in Powassan virus-macrophage studies has previously yielded insights into key host-pathogen interactions ( 61 ), and we hope the ability to use inter-species diversity could provide further insights into Powassan virus resistance and pathogenesis. Finally, the M-CSF-producing cells generated here could be used to differentiate monocytic cells from the periphery rather than common monocyte progenitors from the bone marrow. The stimuli experienced by cells after hematopoiesis are crucial for the diversity of macrophage responses that contribute to disease phenotypes, and while our investigation of naïve cells 
L84:Data S1 iai.00581-24-s0001.txt Plasmid map of JSB_Ec11  P. leucopus  M-CSF producing construct.
L402: D .  2022 .  Mouse bone marrow cell isolation and macrophage differentiation .  Methods Mol Biol 
L405: K .  1998 .  Biological activities and clinical application of M-CSF .  Int J Hematol 
L409: B .  1985 .  The role of growth factors and interferons in the induction of activated murine macrophages from bone marrow precursors .  Immunol Lett 
L738:Supplemental File 1: Plasmid map of JSB_Ec11 P. leucopus M-CSF producing construct
[199ms]
