L1:Lack of Hfe and TfR2 in Macrophages Impairs Iron Metabolism in the Spleen and the Bone Marrow
L7:Iron is a vital element involved in a plethora of metabolic activities. Mammalian systemic iron homeostasis is mainly modulated by hepcidin, the synthesis of which is regulated by a number of proteins, including the hemochromatosis-associated proteins Hfe and Transferrin Receptor 2 (TfR2). Macrophages play versatile functions in iron homeostasis by storing iron derived from the catabolism of erythrocytes and supplying iron required for erythropoiesis. The absence of Hfe in macrophages causes a mild iron deficiency in aged mice and leads to an overproduction of the iron exporter Ferroportin 1 (Fpn1). Conversely,  TfR2  gene silencing in macrophages does not influence systemic iron metabolism but decreases transcription of the macrophage Fpn1 in adult mice and modulates their immune response. This study investigated cellular and systemic iron metabolism in adult and aged male mice with macrophage-specific Hfe and TfR2 silencing (double knock-out, DKO). Serum iron parameters were significantly modified in aged animals, and significant differences were found in hepatic hepcidin transcription at both ages. Interestingly, splenic iron content was low in adult DKOs and splenic Fpn1 transcription was significantly increased in DKO animals at both ages, while the protein amount does not reflect the transcriptional trend. Additionally, DKO macrophages were isolated from mice bone marrow (BMDMs) and showed significant variations in the transcription of iron genes and protein amounts in targeted mice compared to controls. Specifically, Tranferrin Receptor 1 (TfR1) increased in DKO a
L13:In addition to the essential role of Hfe and TfR2 in hepatic Hepc regulation, abnormal iron metabolism in myeloid cells/macrophages has been documented in patients with hereditary hemochromatosis. For example, patients with mutations in  HFE  or  TFR2  have iron-deficient splenic macrophages despite a body iron overload [ 25 ]. Moreover, the TfR2 beta isoform is highly expressed in macrophages and its inactivation in mice results in iron perturbation in splenic macrophages and the bone marrow [ 23 , 26 ]. In addition to pathological conditions, natural aging influences macrophages and their ability to maintain iron homeostasis [ 25 , 27 ].
L14:Macrophages are cells present in all tissues and, among their different metabolic functions, they are responsible for handling iron, thereby regulating the tissue iron pool and the subsequent tissue microenvironment [ 27 ]. Iron is redistributed by macrophages for two primary reasons: it must be supplied for cellular needs, being essential for erythropoiesis, and it is sequestered for bacteriostasis. However, tissue-resident macrophages may also serve as a bioavailable iron storage compartment and be used according to local tissue needs, thus local iron availability must be controlled to ensure cellular iron homeostasis. Macrophages take up transferrin (Tf)-bound iron through the well-known holo-Tf/TfR1 pathway, while the unbound iron is introduced into the cells via a main transmembrane channel (Divalent Metal Channel, DMT1) [ 27 ]. Additionally, macrophages import iron in heme and hemoglobin derived from intravascular RBC hemolysis through Heme-hemopexin (Hx-Heme) and haemoglobin-haptoglobin (Hb-Hp)-mediated endocytosis, respectively [ 2 ]. Excess iron that is not utilized is either exported via Fpn1 or stored within the cytosol in a stable form within ferritin (Ft). This ability of macrophages to regulate iron availability in the microenvironment, thereby contributing to cellular/tissue function, depends on local iron necessity and may be independent of systemic iron homeostasis [ 27 ]. Specifically, iron-rich macrophages within erythroid islands in the bone marrow are suggested to provide iron for erythropoiesis and express many proteins involved in iron metabolism,
L17:Our data show the indispensable role of Hfe and TfR2 in the regulation of hepatic hepcidin production and in iron homeostasis in the spleen and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), which are crucial for iron management during aging.
L19:Hfe/TfR2 floxed mice were obtained by crossing mice carrying the floxed  Hfe  allele [ 31 ] (from a C57BL/6J genetic background) with mice carrying the floxed  TfR2  allele, named Tfr2 KI in the paper by Roetto et al. [ 23 ] (from a sv129 genetic background). These mice were bred with LysMCre (+) transgenic mice (from a C57BL/6 genetic background), expressing Cre recombinase under the control of the mouse lysozyme M promoter (LysMCre (+)), to obtain Hfe floxed-TfR2 floxed LysMCre (+) (Hfe/TfR2 double knock out, DKO) and Hfe/TfR2 Hfe floxed-TfR2 floxed LysMCre (-) (controls, CTRLs) mice. Transcription of both  Hfe  and  Tfr2  genes resulted significantly reduced in Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages (BMDMs) of DKO mice ( p  = 0.0309 and  p  = 0.0433) ( Figure S1 ). No evident changes from the mendelian ratio in newborn genotypes nor in pups viability have been observed.
L29:2.4. Iron Metabolism in Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages Is Compromised by the Lack of Hfe/TfR2
L30:Since macrophages exert an important role in providing iron for erythropoiesis, the effect of Hfe/TfR2 deficiency was analyzed in isolated bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) from adult and aged DKO mice to evaluate if  Hfe  and  TfR2  silencing could compromise RBC production.  Fpn1  transcripts were considerably reduced in adult mice ( p  = 0.0024) and not significantly changed in aged DKO mice vs. age-matched CTRLs ( Figure 4 a). Immunoblot analysis showed lower Fpn1 levels in the BMDMs of adult DKO mice and a statistically significant reduction of Fpn1 in aged DKO mice compared to CTRLs ( p  = 0.0183) ( Figure 4 b). The Fpn1 decrease was confirmed by immunofluorescence analysis ( Figure 4 c).
L43:Considering that this novel mouse model presents macrophage-specific  Hfe  and  TfR2  deletion, iron metabolism in Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages (BMDMs) was examined as they play a pivotal role in iron supply for erythropoiesis [ 27 , 28 ]. Here, it is shown that the targeted deletion of  Hfe  and  TfR2  resulted in reduced levels of the iron exporter Fpn1 in adult DKO animals. Similar findings were reported in TfR2-targeted peritoneal macrophages in a previous study [ 39 ], and it became particularly evident in aged DKO mice. While the  Fpn1  gene is transcriptionally downregulated in adult BMDMs, in aged mice, BMDMs were post-transcriptionally downmodulated by the IRE/IRPS system, which seemed to be functioning. In any case, a reduction in the level of the Fpn1 protein, confirmed in DKO mice through IF, usually occurs when intracellular iron levels are low.
L61:4.6. Isolation of Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages (BMDMs)
L62:The animal’s femur and tibia were transferred into a cell culture plate with 80% ethanol for 15 s to decontaminate them and then in DMEM (Sigma, Steinheim, Germany) to remove excess ethanol. Then, both ends of the bones were cut and the bone marrow was flushed with 2.5 mL of medium. Cells were filtered and the suspension was centrifuged at 1500 rpm for 7 min at 4 °C. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet was suspended in a culture medium containing DMEM with 400 mg/L glucose, 100 mM L-glutamine (Invitrogen, Waltham, MA, USA), 100 mM sodium pyruvate (Sigma, Steinheim, Germany), penicillin/streptomycin 100x (Sigma, Steinheim, Germany), 10x FBS (Sigma, Steinheim, Germany), and the culture supernatant of L929 cells, obtained via the standard culture protocol [ 40 ]. The suspended pellet was divided into three 100 mm Petri dishes (Aurogene, Rome, Italy) for 10 days of incubation at 37 °C, 5% CO 2 . The DMEM medium was changed every two days. After ten days of culture, the differentiated macrophages were collected and stored at −80 °C.
L64:Total RNA was isolated from homogenized livers, spleens, and bone marrow cellular pellets using Trizol Reagent (Ambion, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA), according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Reverse transcription was performed with an iScript kit, (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA), following the manufacturer’s recommendation of 1–3 μg of RNA. The expressions of Hepc, Fpn1, Hfe, DMT1, and β-glucuronidase (Gus-β) were evaluated with TaqMan technology (TaqMan Universal Master Mix, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). The AoD codes of each gene are reported in  Table S2 . TfR1 and TfR2 expressions were determined using CYBR Technology; each gene-specific primer is reported in  Table S2 . The C1000 Thermal Cycler CFX96 Real-Time System (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA) was utilized. All analyses were carried out in biological and technical replicates and the target mRNA was compared to age-matched DKO and CTRL mice groups. Transcriptional data were evaluated by taking 2^-delta delta Ct values normalized to the mean of age-matched CTRLs.
L70:Macrophages isolated from bone marrow (BMDMs) were collected and plated in culture in 6-well plates with slides for 1–2 days to allow engraftment. The slides were then washed with PBS and fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) in PBS pH 7.4 for 10 min at RT. The cells were then treated with 3% blocking solution in 1x PBS for 30 min, then primary antibody anti-Fpn1 (see above) was added to the cell suspension, which was stored overnight at 4 °C. After washing, the cells were incubated with the secondary antibody Alexa fluor 488 Green (1: 500, Invitrogen, Waltham, MA, USA) for 1 h at RT in the dark. Then, 1 µL of DAPI (4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) was added for 5 min to stain nuclei and subsequently washed with dH2O. The slides were dried and mounted on microscope slides with tris-glycerol supplemented with 10% Moviol (Calbiochem, LaJolla, CA, USA) and examined with the Zeiss LSM 800 confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss, Feldbach, Switzerland). The images were taken at 63x magnification. Signal strength was measured using ImageJ 1.38v software. BMDMs from 3 different animals for each genotype/age were analyzed. Fluorescence from thirty-five cells have been evaluated for each mouse. The Fpn1 fluorescence was normalized to nuclei (DAPI).
L79:Figure 7 Proposed model on the effects of combined Hfe and TfR2 silencing in macrophages during aging. Left: adult DKO animals have splenic iron deficiency (light purple in the Figure), but no significant changes could be observed in serum iron parameters, irrespective of the lower amount of iron exporter Ferroportin 1 (Fpn1) due to an abnormally high Hepc production. In the animal’s bone marrow, targeted macrophages import more iron, increasing TfR1 so that erythropoiesis is maintained and Epo levels are comparable to those of aged-matched CTRLs. Right: in DKO aged animals, the spleen is not able to provide enough iron anymore to maintain erythropoiesis, and the serum iron parameters change according to an iron deficiency condition, which causes a reduction in Hepc. Concurrently, the iron intake of BMDMs is impaired through TfR1 and DMT1, an intracellular iron deficiency, and a decrease in Fpn1 amount, compromising the iron supply for erythropoiesis, whose impairment is manifested by an increase in Epo. BM: Bone Marrow; BMDM: Bone marrow-Derived Macrophages; DMT1: Divalent Metal Transporter 1; Epo: Erythropoietin; Fpn1: Ferroportin 1; Hepc: Hepcidin; Tf: Transferrin; TfR1: Transferrin Receptor 1.
L312: Growing Murine Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages Methods Mol. Biol. 2018 1784 29 33 10.1007/978-1-4939-7837-3_3 29761385
[61ms]
