L1:Extracellular Vesicles From Bone Marrow‐Derived Macrophages Enriched in ARG1 Enhance Microglial Phagocytosis and Haematoma Clearance Following Intracerebral Haemorrhage
L38:Microglial phagocytosis of haematomas is crucial for neural functional recovery following intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH), a process regulated by various factors from within and outside the central nervous system (CNS). Extracellular vesicles (EVs), significant mediators of intercellular communication, have been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis and progression of CNS diseases. However, the regulatory role of endogenous EVs on the phagocytic capacity of microglia post‐ICH remains elusive. Utilising multi‐omics analysis of brain tissue‐derived EVs proteomics and single‐cell RNA sequencing, this study identified that bone marrow‐derived macrophages (BMDMs) potentially enhance microglial phagocytosis via EVs following ICH. By blocking BMDMs and reducing ARG1 in BMDM‐derived EVs, we demonstrated that BMDMs facilitate erythrophagocytosis by delivering ARG1 to microglia via EVs post‐ICH. EVs‐carried ARG1 was found to augment phagocytosis by promoting RAC1‐dependent cytoskeletal remodelling in microglia. Collectively, this research uncovers an intercellular communication pathway from BMDMs to microglia mediated by EVs post‐ICH. This provides a novel paradigm for EV‐mediated intercellular communication mechanisms and suggests a promising therapeutic potential for BMDM‐derived EVs in the treatment of ICH.
L56:BMDMs were extracted from the femurs of adult mice. Briefly, after cervical dislocation of adult mice, bilateral femurs were immediately isolated and placed in HBSS buffer. Both ends of the femurs were cut off, and the marrow cells were flushed out using a 5 mL syringe with HBSS buffer, repeating the process three times for each femur. After centrifuging at 300 ×  g  for 5 min, RBCs were lysed using RBC lysis buffer (Invitrogen, 00‐4333‐57, USA). The cell suspension was filtered through a 40 µm cell strainer, centrifuged again to obtain the cell pellets, and then resuspended in DMEM culture medium (Gibco, 11965092, USA) containing 20 ng/mL M‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐02, USA) and 20 ng/mL GM‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐03, USA) and 10% FBS before being seeded into cell culture flasks. Three days later, the medium was completely replaced to remove non‐adherent cells, and subsequently, half of the medium was changed every 3 days.
L78:Bone Marrow Macrophages Clearance
L79:The method of clearing bone marrow macrophages with busulfan was previously published (Peake et al.  2015 ). In brief, busulfan powder (MedChemExpress, HY‐B0245, USA) was dissolved in DMSO (Sigma‐Aldrich, D2650, USA) to prepare a 12 mg/mL stock solution, which was aliquoted and stored at −20°C. Before each injection, the stock solution was diluted with sterile water to a working concentration of 6 mg/mL. The injection was completed within 10 min. Starting 7 days before the planned model construction, the drug was administered intraperitoneally every 2 days, with a dose of 20 mg busulfan per kilogram of body weight. Mice in the Vehicle control group received an equivalent volume of DMSO and sterile water mixture.
L122:Busulfan, a myelosuppressive agent primarily used for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, has been employed in animal studies to establish myeloablation models or to prepare for bone marrow transplantation (O'Marcaigh and Betcher  1996 ). To assess the impact of BMDM‐derived EVs on the erythrophagocytic activity of microglial cells, we induced ICH in mice following myeloablation with busulfan and evaluated the residual haematoma, neurological recovery, and the erythrophagocytosis of microglia (Figures  3a  and  S5 ).
L123:FIGURE 3 Impaired erythrophagocytosis of microglia, delayed haematoma clearance and neurological recovery in mice lacking BMDMs. (a) Experimental workflow to investigate the effects of BMDM depletion on haematoma clearance, neurological recovery, and microglial erythrophagocytosis following ICH in mice. Mice were intraperitoneally injected with busulfan to eliminate bone marrow cells, subjected to ICH modelling, and then assessed for neurological function, residual haematoma volume and microglial phagocytosis of RBCs at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. (b) Representative images of coronal brain sections from mice at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH, showing residual haematomas. Scale bar, 5 mm. (c) Quantification of residual haematoma volume at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.05, ns, not significant. (d) Quantification of residual haematoma index at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (e) Quantification of residual haemoglobin levels in the mouse brain. Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (f–i) Statistical graphs of neurological dysfunction assessments using the cylinder test. (f), forelimb placing test (g), cornering test (h) and rotarod test (i). Data are presented as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (j) Representative histogram of the FITC channel from flow cytometry analysis of RBC phagocytosis by microglia isolated from the injured hemisphere of sham‐operated and 7‐day post‐ICH mice, with the Negative group representing microglia not co‐cultur
L127:In addition to pharmacological methods, we used Ccr2 −/−  knockout mice, in which monocytes have an impaired ability to egress from the bone marrow. The Ccr2 −/−  mice had larger residual haematomas at 3 and 7 days post‐ICH compared to wild‐type mice (Figure  3m–o ), and the levels of residual haemoglobin in the haemorrhagic hemisphere were higher than in wild‐type mice (Figure  3p ).
L132:FIGURE 4 BMDM‐EVs enhance microglial phagocytic capacity and reduces residual haematoma in myeloablation mice following ICH. (a) Schematic of the procedure for extracting EVs from cultured BMDM cells and representative TEM image of BMDM‐EVs. Scale bar, 100 nm. (b) Particle size distribution of BMDM‐EVs as determined by NTA. (c) Western blot showing the presence of ALIX, CD63, ACTIN and CD9 in BMDM cells and EVs. (d) Representative fluorescence images of PMG treated with PBS or BMDM‐EVs and phagocytosing fluorescently labelled RBCs. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Red: PKH26‐labelled RBCs, Green: Fluorescein‐conjugated Lectin antibody‐labelled PMG. Scale bar, 50 and 10 µm. (e) Violin plot showing the fluorescence intensity of RBCs phagocytosed by individual PMG in the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM, **** p  < 0.0001. (f) Violin plots showing the phagocytic index of each PMG, represented as RBC Intensity per unit area of PMG (PKH26 Intensity/LECTIN Area) ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM. **** p  < 0.0001. (g) Quantification of residual RBCs in the culture media of PMG from the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 6). Data are shown as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01. (h) Quantification of residual haemoglobin in the culture media of PMG from each group ( n  = 6). Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001. (i) Schematic of the in vivo validation of BMDM‐EVs‐enhanced microglial erythrophagocytosis. Mice were first treated with busulfan to deplete bone marrow cells, then subjected to ICH modelling, and received
L151:Previous studies have reported that during the phagocytosis of apoptotic cells, intracellular ARG1 is involved in the metabolism of engulfed apoptotic cells, and increases the GEF of RAC1 to counteract the reduced activity of RAC1 due to the intracellular membrane reduction during the previous phagocytic process, thus optimising continual phagocytosis (Yurdagul et al.  2020 ; Schille et al.  2018 ). Our study also shows that BMDM‐EVs can increase the levels of ARG1 and DBL in microglia, whether in bone marrow‐depleted mouse brain or in vitro cultured PMGs. In contrast, BMDM‐EVs lacking ARG1 do not exhibit this effect, corresponding to a decrease in the activated RAC1 levels and phagocytic capacity. Therefore, our study demonstrates that following ICH, BMDM cells deliver ARG1 protein to microglial cells via EVs, which enhances the stability of  Mcf2  within microglial cells. This leads to an increase in the content of RAC1 GEF DBL, promoting RAC1‐dependent cytoskeletal remodelling and facilitating the phagocytic and clearance of haematoma by microglial cells (Figure  7 ).
L154:In this study, we report a unidirectional intercellular communication based on EVs between macrophages and microglia. Our key findings are as follows: (1) Following ICH, bone marrow‐derived macrophages (BMDMs) generate EVs that enhance the phagocytic activity of microglia towards erythrocytes; (2) EVs derived from BMDMs elevate the levels of ARG1 in microglia, thereby augmenting erythrophagocytosis post‐ICH; (3) BMDM‐EVs deliver ARG1 to microglia, thereby potentiating erythrophagocytosis through Mcf2‐Dbl‐Rac1‐mediated cytoskeletal remodelling. These findings suggest a significant therapeutic potential of BMDM‐EVs in the treatment of ICH.
L159:Distinguishing microglia from macrophages in CNS research presents a significant challenge. This is due to their shared antigens, such as CX3CR1, CD11b and CD45 (Mass et al.  2016 ). Consequently, studies on ICH often categorise microglia and macrophages as a single cell type for research purposes (Jing et al.  2019 ; Cai et al.  2019 ). Recent research has discovered that microglia arise from embryonic yolk sac (YS) precursors (Ginhoux and Guilliams  2016 ). Microglia maintain their CNS population through self‐renewal, with minimal contribution from blood cells (Ajami et al.  2007 ; Hashimoto et al.  2013 ). Thus, microglia are developmentally and functionally distinct from blood‐associated myeloid cells, such as monocytes. The differing contributions of infiltrating and resident macrophage populations have been demonstrated in the pathogenesis of various mouse disease models (Ritzel et al.  2015 ; Ajami et al.  2011 ). There is a growing recognition that understanding the heterogeneity of myeloid cell activation states is crucial for elucidating the mechanisms of neurological pathology. Our research complements the understanding of functional differences between microglia and bone marrow‐derived macrophages in the context of acute brain injury.
L737: .  2015 . “ Busulfan as a Myelosuppressive Agent for Generating Stable High‐Level Bone Marrow Chimerism in Mice .”  Journal of visualized experiments: JoVE  no.  98 :  e52553 . 25867947
[134ms]
