L31:Clinical specimens of UC patients with EBV infection and a mouse model of dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis with concurrent murine γ-herpesvirus 68 (MHV-68) infection were utilized to investigate the relationship between EBV infection and macrophage pyroptosis.  In vivo , adoptive transfer of MHV-68-induced macrophages and macrophage depletion were performed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.  In vitro , myeloid leukemia mononuclear cells of human (THP-1) and macrophages derived from mouse bone marrow (BMDMs) were stimulated with EBV and MHV-68, respectively, to assess macrophage pyroptosis and glycolysis.
L48:The mice (C57BL/6, male), obtained from GemPharmatech Co., Ltd. (Chengdu, China) at 6–8 weeks of age, were housed in the BSL-2 animal center at West China Hospital. All mice were randomized into experimental groups and acclimatized for 7 days before beginning the experimental protocol. Mice were provided with an oral 2% (w/v) solution containing DSS, with a molecular weight ranging between 36 000 and 50 000 Da, mixed in their drinking water for an interval of 5 days. Subsequently, they were returned to regular water for an additional period of 3 days to trigger colitis. To simulate colitis concurrent with MHV-68 infection, mice were intraperitoneally injected with 200 µl of murine γ-herpesvirus 68 (MHV-68) at an injection dose of 1 × 10 6  plaque-forming units (PFU)/ml before DSS administration. To ensure the systemic dissemination of the macrophages via the bloodstream, adoptive transfer procedures involved stimulating bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) with MHV-68 or phosphate-buffered saline  in vitro  for 12 h prior to tail vein injection. On the third day of DSS treatment, 1 × 10 6  BMDMs were delivered to DSS-treated mice via tail vein injection in 200 µl of PBS. For macrophage depletion, 200 µl of clodronate liposome (LIPO; Yeasen, China) was intravenously injected into MHV-68-infected mice 1 day before and 3 days after DSS administration. Daily weight measurements of the mice were taken, with continuous assessment of the disease activity index (DAI) to track disease progression throughout the experimental period, as previously documented [ 34 ]. The animals
L50:Myeloid leukemia mononuclear cells of human (THP-1) were transformed into adherent macrophages by treatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA; 100 nM) for 24 h. BMDMs were treated with mouse macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) to drive differentiation, whereas 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) was used to inhibit glycolysis. To obtain peritoneal macrophages, 10 ml of cold PBS was injected into the abdominal cavity of mice, coupled with a 3-min abdominal massage to obtain peritoneal lavage fluid. Cells were pelleted from the lavage fluid after centrifugation for 5 min at 1500 rpm and subsequently used for further experiments.
[48ms]
