L1:Proline/serine-rich coiled-coil protein 1 alleviates pyroptosis in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages
L42: POSTN  suppresses macrophage pyroptosis mediated by low expression of PSRC1. These findings suggest that PSRC1 can alleviate pyroptosis and inflammation in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) by regulating the ECM and negatively regulating POSTN. This study provides insights into the role of PSRC1 in macrophage pyroptosis and identifies a potential target for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. Further research is needed to confirm these findings
L45:proline/serine-rich coiled-coil protein 1; pyroptosis; bone marrow-derived macrophages; inflammation
L67: PSRC1 -knockout bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), we further found that PSRC1 mitigates macrophage pyroptosis and the accompanying proinflammatory cytokines. Pyroptosis and inflammatory responses are aggravated in PSRC1-deficient BMDMs. In contrast, overexpression of PSRC1 ameliorates pyroptosis. Through RNA-seq analysis and experimental validation, we further revealed that POSTN mediates this effect and that aggravated pyroptosis can be counteracted by downregulating the expression of POSTN. For the first time, we report that PSRC1 downregulates the expression of POSTN, thereby inhibiting macrophage pyroptosis. This work identifies a novel target for modulating pyroptosis in macrophages and reveals a potential mechanism contributing to the pathology of diseases such as atherosclerosis.
L77: in vitro  experiments, bone marrow was obtained from male mice aged 8–16 weeks. Age- and sex-matched wild-type control
L81:The mice were sacrificed via cervical dislocation and soaked in 75% alcohol for 10 min. The bone marrow cavities of the femurs and tibias were amputated and then repeatedly flushed with DMEM containing 1% penicillin/streptomycin. The cell suspension was centrifuged and then resuspended in complete medium. Primary BMDMs were subsequently cultured in high-glucose DMEM supplemented with 10% FBS, 100 U/mL penicillin/streptomycin and 20 ng/mL M-CSF (Z03275; GenScript, Nanjing, China). The BMDMs were cultured at a density of 1.5 × 10
[66ms]
