L1:G protein-coupled receptor 91 promotes the inflammatory response to  Porphyromonas gingivalis  in bone marrow-derived macrophages
L7:Macrophages are important for maintaining tissue homeostasis and defending against pathogens in periodontal tissues. However, these tissues are often vulnerable to damage due to local inflammatory responses within the host tissues. This study aimed to investigate the role of G protein-coupled receptor 91(GPR91) during the inflammatory response to  Porphyromonas gingivalis  ( P. gingivalis ) in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). To this end, we examined expression levels of GPR91 genes in human periodontal tissues affected by periodontitis. Utilizing primary mouse BMDMs from wild-type (WT) and GPR91 knockout (GPR91 −/− ) mice infected with  P. gingivalis , we demonstrated that GPR91 accumulates in inflamed gingival tissues. Additionally,  P. gingivalis  can induce intercellular succinate accumulation, inflammatory mediator generation, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, lipid peroxidation, and superoxide dismutase activity in WT-BMDMs. Moreover, inhibition of GPR91 by the specific inhibitor 4C as well as knockdown of GPR91 reduced inflammation and oxidative stress in  P. gingivalis -infected BMDMs. Furthermore, we discovered that GPR91-mediated inflammation in  P. gingivalis -infected BMDMs is activated via the Erk/Nuclear Factor-κB pathway. These findings provide new insights into the metabolic pathogenesis of periodontal inflammation.
L9:GPR91; P. gingivalis; Bone marrow-derived macrophages; Periodontitis; Succinate; Nuclear factor-κB
L20:Ethical Review Committee for Experimental Animal Welfare, Nanjing University (IACUC-D2202111) approved the study protocol. C57BL/6 mice and GPR91 knockout mice (GPR91 −/− ) of 6–8 weeks of age were generated and identified by GemPharmatech (GemPharmatech Co. Ltd., Nanjing, China). The mice were bred in a specific-pathogen free (SPF) sterile environment with a temperature of 22 °C, relative humidity of 60 %, and daily light duration of 12 h. Mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation and sterilized with 75 % ethanol for 15 min. Then the femurs and tibiae were collected and ice-cold PBS flushed out the bone marrow cells in the medullary cavity. Supernatants were collected in ice-cold PBS and filtered through a 70 μm nylon cell strainer to remove solid fragments. The filtrate was centrifuged at 1000 rounds per min for 5 min at 4 °C, and red blood cell lysis buffer (Beyotime, China) removed the erythrocytes. The bone marrow cells were differentiated into murine bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) as previously described [ 17 ] by using 1640 conditioned medium for 7 days. The culture medium was composed of RPMI 1640 medium (Gibco, USA) with 10 % fetal bovine serum (FBS) (Gibco, Australia), 1 % penicillin/streptomycin solution, and 30 % L929 conditioned medium.
L26:Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in BMDMs were detected using the reactive oxygen species assay kit (S0033S, Beyotime, China). BMDMs differentiated from the bone marrow cells were seeded at a density of 1 × 10 6  cells in a 6-well cell culture plate and treated with  P.gingivalis  for 24 h. Cells were incubated with 10 μM DCFH-DA reagent for 30 min at 37 °C and stained with an anti-mouse inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) antibody (1:250, CST, D6B6S). The color reactions of images were captured on confocal microscopy (Nikon A1, Japan). Subsequently, cells were scraped in the PBS, before being transferred to the polypropylene FACS tubes. The stained cells were analyzed with FlowJo software (Tree Star, USA) and data were analyzed with FlowJo v.9.5.2 software (Tree Star).
L47:Macrophages are among the primary immune cells in gingival tissues affected by chronic periodontitis. In this study, bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were initially cultured with  P. gingivalis  at multiplicities of infection (MOI) of 10, 50, and 250 for 4 h. The results revealed a gradual upregulation in the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and GPR91 with increasing MOI ( Fig. 2 a). Additionally, intercellular succinate levels increased with the degree of  P. gingivalis  infection ( Fig. 2 b). We further investigated whether  P. gingivalis  infection induced cell death in BMDMs and its impact on cell activity. After 24 h, less than 10 percent cell death was observed at an MOI of 50, whereas this value increased to over 20 percent at an MOI of 250 ( Fig. 2 c). Furthermore, the presence of bacterial infection significantly affected BMDM activity at the MOI of 250 at 24 h, while low-dose bacterial stimulation had no significant effect on cell activity ( Fig. 2 d). Fig. 2 P. gingivalis -induced macrophage inflammation reduced via GPR91 inhibition. BMDMs from WT mice were cultured with different multiplicity of infections (MOIs) of  P. gingivalis . (a) The expressions of IL-1β, IL-6, TNFα, and GPR91 as detected by real-time qPCR at 4 h. (b) Intercellular succinate concentrations were measured after 24 h of infection. Cells were pretreated with 4C (GPR91 antagonist, 5 μM) for 2 h and infected with  P. gingivalis  (MOI = 50). (c) LDH assay was conducted to measure cell death at 24 h following bacterial infection. (d) Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) was utilized to d
[59ms]
