L1:HIF-1α regulates mitochondrial function in bone marrow-derived macrophages, but not in tissue-resident alveolar macrophages
L6:HIF-1α plays a critical role in shaping macrophage phenotype and effector function. We have previously shown that tissue-resident alveolar macrophages (TR-AMs) have extremely low glycolytic capacity at steady-state, but can shift toward glycolysis under hypoxic conditions. Here, using inducible HIF-1α knockout ( Hif1a −/− ) TR-AMs and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) and show that TR-AM HIF-1α is required for the glycolytic shift under prolyl hydroxylase inhibition, but is dispensable at steady-state for inflammatory effector function. In contrast, HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs led to diminished glycolytic capacity at steady-state and reduced inflammatory capacity, but higher mitochondrial function. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed enhanced c-Myc transcriptional activity in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs, and upregulation of gene pathways related to ribosomal biogenesis and cellular proliferation. The findings highlight the heterogeneity of HIF-1α function in distinct macrophage populations and provide new insight into how HIF-1α regulates gene expression, inflammation, and metabolism in macrophages.
L8:Alveolar macrophage; bone marrow-derived macrophage; lung; HIF-1α; metabolism; mitochondria; glycolysis; effector function; inflammation
L10:It is well-established that glycolytic metabolism plays a central role in regulating immune cell effector function. 1 – 5  As the field of immunometabolism grows, it has become more apparent that tissue-specific conditions lead to unique metabolic characteristics that often fall outside of the conventional framework ascribed to broader immune cell populations. 6 – 8  For instance, while bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) rely predominantly on glycolysis for proinflammatory processes, we have found glycolysis to be dispensable for inflammation in tissue-resident alveolar macrophages (TR-AMs). 9  It is likely that the unique environment of the alveolar lumen dictates the metabolic needs of TR-AMs. 10  Glucose concentrations within the airway are approximately one-tenth of those observed in the blood, and oxygen levels are the highest of any compartment within the human body making oxidative phosphorylation a more efficient means of metabolism for TR-AMs. 6 , 11  While TR-AMs do not conduct glycolysis under steady-state conditions, they can be pushed toward a glycolytic phenotype under severe hypoxia such as in cases of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) where lung oxygenation is impaired. 12  Further highlighting the role of the alveolar niche in dictating cellular phenotype, BMDMs, peritoneal macrophages, and macrophage precursors transplanted into the airway acquire phenotypical characteristics associated with TR-AM identity. 8 , 13  Together, these findings show that TR-AMs occupy a unique environment that negates the need for glycolytic metabolism under s
L41:We observed no changes in TR-AM inflammatory capabilities upon HIF-1α deletion. ETC inhibition greatly reduces cytokine production in TR-AMs, but these reductions can be overcome through pretreatment with hypoxia 12 . These findings are aligned with our data showing that unlike BMDMS, LPS treatment does not result in HIF-1α translocation to the nucleus in TR-AMs. Zhu and colleagues have shown that Poly (I:C) or influenza infection upregulate HIF-1α in TR-AMs, but we were not able to replicate these results. 48 , 49  We find that only hypoxia or pharmacological inhibition of prolyl hydroxylases induces HIF-1α in TR-AMs. One explanation for the observed differences is that Zhu and colleagues cultured TR-AMs in the presence of GM-CSF. GM-CSF is important to TR-AM function  in vivo , but it induces proliferation of TR-AMs in culture. 50 , 51  Within the alveolus, epithelial-derived soluble mediators and direct interactions with epithelial cells function to prevent widespread TR-AM proliferation in the presence of physiological levels of GM-CSF. 52  Thus, it may be that previous observations of HIF-1α induction in TR-AMs are related to proliferation as opposed to inflammatory effector function.
L42:While HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs depressed proinflammatory effector function, RNA-seq Gene Ontology analysis showed upregulation in ribosomal biogenesis, rRNA metabolic processes, and noncoding RNA processing gene pathways in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. Others have recently observed upregulation of ribosomal biogenesis genes in tumor-associated macrophages, but the mechanism underlying this phenomenon remains unclear. 53  Increased expression of these gene pathways has been associated with increased proliferation and cell growth, and c-Myc has been identified as a critical regulator of these processes. 24  c-Myc and HIF-1α can work in concert or opposition to augment cellular metabolism, protein synthesis, cell growth, and proliferation. 25  While it may seem paradoxical,  Hif1a −/−  tumors grow faster and become more invasive in the presence of adequate oxygen, but under hypoxia, HIF-1α can displace c-Myc from DNA to induce cell cycle arrest. 54 , 55  In a similar vein, BMDMs restimulated with MCSF following a period of starvation upregulate c-Myc and shift toward a proliferative phenotype reliant on both glycolysis and mitochondrial metabolism. LPS treatment downregulates c-Myc, upregulates HIF-1α, and supports a glycolysis dominant metabolism in BMDMs. 56  This suggests that BMDMs proinflammatory effector function suppresses proliferation and shifts the cell from Myc-dependent to HIF-1α-dependent metabolism. We find the Myc regulon to be the most upregulated transcriptional network in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs compared to controls. This suggests that c-Myc serves a more dominant role i
L46:All studies in animals were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at the University of Chicago IACUC. All animal studies were carried out according to the recommendations from an NIH-sponsored workshop  57  and ARRIVE guidelines 58 . To generate mice with inducible HIF1α knockout ( Hif1a −/− ) in cells of myeloid lineage,  Lyz2tm1(cre/ERT2)Grtn/J  (Jackson Strain #: 031674) mice were bred with  B6.129-Hif1atm3Rsjo/J  (Jackson Strain #: 007561) mice. The resulting HIF1α:LysM-Cre ( Hif1aΔLysM  or  Hif1a −/− )  and HIF1α:LysM-NoCre ( Hif1afl/fl  or  Hif1a +/+ ) progeny were treated intraperitonially with tamoxifen dissolved in peanut oil for 5 days (80mg/kg/day) to generate  Hif1a −/−  TR-AMs and tamoxifen-treated control TR-AMs, respectively. These 6–8 week old male mice were humanely euthanized, and their TR-AMs were isolated via standard bronchoalveolar lavage (intratracheal instillation) using PBS + 0.5 mM EDTA. Following isolation, TR-AMs were counted, plated in RPMI 1640 (ThermoFisher, Cat# 11875119) supplemented with 10% FBS (Gemini, Cat# 100–106) and 1% penicillin-streptomycin (Gemini, Cat# 400–109), and allowed to adhere to tissue culture plates for one hour prior to experimentation. BMDMs were generated by isolating bone marrow cells from the femur and tibia bones of 6–8 week old  Hif1aΔLysM  ( Hif1a −/− ) and  Hif1afl/fl  ( Hif1a +/+ ) mice. Bone marrow cells were differentiated into BMDMs on petri dishes using 40 ng/mL recombinant M-CSF (BioLegend, Cat# 576406) and 1µg/ml 4-Hydroxytamoxifen (Millipore Sigma, Cat# SML1666) in the same media
[126ms]
