L1:Isolation and adipogenic differentiation of murine mesenchymal stem cells harvested from macrophage-depleted bone marrow and adipose tissue
L7:Mouse mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) provide a resourceful tool to study physiological and pathological aspects of adipogenesis. Bone marrow-derived MSCs (BM-MSCs) and adipose tissue-derived MSCs (ASCs) are widely used for these studies. Since there is a wide spectrum of methods available, the purpose is to provide a focused hands-on procedural guide for isolation and characterization of murine BM-MSCs and ASCs and to effectively differentiate them into adipocytes.
L13:Bone marrow; adipose tissue; mesenchymal stem cells; adipogenic differentiation; experimental protocols
L15:Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multipotent stem cells that self-renew and differentiate into various cell types, including adipocytes, osteoblasts, chondrocytes, and myocytes [ 1 ]. MSCs can be isolated from tissues such as bone marrow, fat, lungs, liver, placenta, umbilical cord, and skin [ 2 ]. Bone marrow and white adipose tissue are two widely used sources of bone marrow-derived MSCs (BM-MSCs) and adipose tissue-derived MSCs (ASCs), respectively [ 3 , 4 ]. BM-MSCs and ASCs are commonly employed to study adipogenic differentiation in cell culture because of their robust stemness and proliferative capacity [ 3–5 ]. Wild-type mice and genetically engineered mouse models provide a useful source of BM-MSCs and ASCs for studying various molecular aspects of adipogenic differentiation. While many protocols have been published to isolate BM-MSCs and ASCs from mice and to differentiate them in cell culture into adipocytes, detailed hands-on protocols for these procedures are lacking. Therefore, this study aimed to provide an effective, highly reproducible step-by-step protocol to isolate murine BM-MSCs and ASCs and to differentiate them into adipocytes.
L16:Murine bone marrow consists of heterogeneous cell types, including mesenchymal stem cells, haematopoietic stem cells, and resident macrophages. Similarly, the stromal vascular fraction (SVF) derived from adipose tissue comprises a heterogeneous population of cells, including mesenchymal stem cells, preadipocytes, adipocytes, and macrophages [ 4 ]. Most of the contaminating cells were removed during the isolation procedures described in this article. However, BM-MSCs isolated from bone marrow are often contaminated by macrophages [ 5 , 6 ]. Although somewhat less of a problem, macrophage contamination can also occur when ASCs are isolated from SVF. Macrophage contamination is a confounding factor for downstream differentiation. For example, incubation of BM-MSCs in medium containing macrophages leads to enhanced osteogenic differentiation, whereas inhibition of macrophages results in impaired osteogenic potential of BM-MSCs [ 7 , 8 ]. Pro-inflammatory cytokines produced by macrophages inhibit adipogenic differentiation of ASCs [ 9 ]. Since the presence of macrophages can modulate the differentiation potential of BM-MSCs and ASCs, it is necessary to deplete macrophages from MSC preparations for adipogenic differentiation. Macrophages can be depleted using different methods, such as magnetic bead-based separation or the liposomal chlodronate approach [ 10–12 ]. In this paper, we focus on magnetic bead separation for effectively depleting macrophages from isolated MSCs, as it is a simple and reproducible method that allows precise and targeted removal of macrophages while p
L18:This method paper provides detailed experimental steps to harvest BM-MSCs and ASCs from mouse bone marrow and adipose tissues, respectively. We explain the steps involved in depleting macrophages from MSC preparations, after which they can be used for adipogenic differentiation experiments. We outlined the phenotypic characterization of the harvested BM-MSCs and ASCs by flow cytometric analysis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the four-component cocktail at the indicated concentrations induced both freshly isolated and frozen BM-MSCs and ASCs towards the adipogenic lineage. Finally, we explain the details of the detection method for differentiated BM-MSCs and ASCs using Oil Red O staining and by quantifying the stained cells for statistical analysis.
L22:Figure 1. Schematic of the steps to harvest BM-MSCs from tibiae and femurs of mice. Schematics demonstrating the steps required to harvest bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) from the tibiae and femurs of mice as explained in the protocol.
L23:A schematic of the steps to harvest BM-MSCs from the tibiae and femurs of mice is provided in  Figure 1 .
L24: Figure 1. Schematic of the steps to harvest BM-MSCs from tibiae and femurs of mice. Schematics demonstrating the steps required to harvest bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) from the tibiae and femurs of mice as explained in the protocol. Schematic representation of BM-MSC isolation from mouse long bones. Each step represents an important aspect in the isolation procedure.
L27:Figure 2. Schematic of the steps for customized tube preparation to extract BM-MSCs. Steps to prepare the customized tubes required to collect bone marrow after the bones are centrifuged. Briefly, 1 mL pipette tips were cut using a scalpel so that they fit properly in 1.5 mL reaction tubes. Both the tube and the cut tip were separately before use.
L28:1.2 Preparation of 1.5 mL reaction tubes containing the insert for extraction of bone marrow from bone shafts Schematic of the steps for customized tube preparation to extract BM-MSCs is provided in  Figure 2 .
L29: Figure 2. Schematic of the steps for customized tube preparation to extract BM-MSCs. Steps to prepare the customized tubes required to collect bone marrow after the bones are centrifuged. Briefly, 1 mL pipette tips were cut using a scalpel so that they fit properly in 1.5 mL reaction tubes. Both the tube and the cut tip were separately before use. Schematic representation of customized tube preparation for BM-MSC extraction. Tips are cut, autoclaved and assembled into tubes. 1.2.1 Cut the bottom end of 1 mL pipette tips so that they can fit well in 1.5 mL reaction tubes and autoclave both the tube and cut tip separately before use. 1.2.2 Under a sterile laminar flow hood, place the cut tips inside 1.5 mL reaction tubes and ensure that the lids close well. NOTE : Alternatively, 0.75 mL microcentrifuge tubes with both ends cut can be used for this step. 1.3 Euthanizing the experimental mice 1.3.1 Young donor mice of 4–6 weeks of age weighing about 18–20 g are ideal for BM-MSC isolation. NOTE : Young mice of this age tend to have higher numbers of multipotent MSCs within their bone marrow cavities than older mice. 1.3.2 Place the mouse selected for dissection in an anaesthesia chamber and euthanize the mouse in a humane manner by CO 2  asphyxiation under isoflurane anaesthesia followed by cervical dislocation. 1.4 Dissecting the experimental mice 1.4.1 Pin down the mouse on a dissection board with the ventral side facing up. 1.4.2 Swab the mouse with 70% (v/v) ethanol or other appropriate disinfectants, which has the added benefits of wetting the fur. NOTE : Washing the c
L30:1.4.3 Using forceps, grab and hold the skin anteriorly to the urethral opening. Using sterile dissecting scissors, insert a small incision (about 1 cm) along the ventral midline from the groin to the chin, being careful to only cut the skin and not the underlying muscle wall. 1.4.4 Cut the abdominal skin and remove the skin from the animal in a rapid motion that pulls it off the torso and down onto the extremities to expose the lower abdomen and legs. 1.4.5 Remove the whole bone shaft by detaching it from the hipbone at femur head from both the right and left legs. 1.4.6 Remove the tibia and femur from each side and scrape off the adjacent adherent tissue using a scalpel. NOTE :a) Cutting the tendons and muscles from the bones as much as possible makes cleaning faster and easier using lint-free wipes (example: Kimwipes). b) Care must be taken when manipulating the bones, as the cleaning procedures tend to break the bones easily and the extent of bone fragility may vary depending on the genotype, age, or sex. 1.4.7 Remove the end of the bones by cutting at the epiphyses using sterile surgical scissors. 1.4.8 Once harvested, hold the shaft of the tibia and femur by sterile forceps and place them into a 10 mL centrifuge tube containing sterile isotonic phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) maintained on ice.
L31:NOTE : Process the collected bones quickly (within 30 min) as any delay could result in compromised sub-optimal MSCs. 1.5 Processing of bones to collect bone marrow 1.5.1 Move the collected bone samples to a sterile laminar flow hood for further steps of isolation.  NOTE:  Work aseptically from this step onwards to minimize the possibility of contaminations in the cell culture. 1.5.2 Rinse the tibia and femur thoroughly with 10 mL PBS to remove any remaining adherent particles, hair, or blood by transferring the bone shafts in a sterile petri plate. 1.5.3 Cut bones horizontally in two halves using pre-sterilized surgical scissors to ensure that the bone marrow is released from the bones as described in the subsequent steps. NOTE :a) Alternatively, bone marrow can be also effectively harvested by a ‘Bone flush method’ using a liquid-filled syringe as described in [ 23 ]. b) Keep the surrounding area sterile and clutter-free so that in case the bone slips off while cutting it into two halves, it is still possible to use it. 1.5.4 Carefully place one bone cut into two halves with the cut end facing down for each bone in one 1.5 mL reaction tube containing the insert ( Figure 2 ). 1.5.5 Centrifuge the tubes at 16,000 × g at ambient temperature three times for 30 s each. Ensure that the entire marrow has pelleted at the bottom of the tubes while the bones are held inside the inserts. NOTE : The bones from which the entire marrow is flushed out will appear almost white. If some bones still retain some marrow evident by a more red colour, those tubes should be centrifuged agai
L32:NOTE : Add the complete culture medium first before removing the inserts from the tube as the marrow is sticky and tends to be removed with the insert. 1.5.7 Pipette the cell pellets up and down several times using a 1 mL pipette to slowly suspend the marrow until a homogenous suspension is obtained. Pool the marrow suspension from femur and tibia of one mouse into a single 15 mL centrifuge tube. NOTE : It is important to cut the ends of the 1 mL of pipette tips to reduce shear forces that may damage the cells. 1.5.8 Add 10 mL of the culture medium for BM-MSCs to the homogenous cell suspension. NOTE : Do not let the marrow dry as the cells will lose their potential to differentiate. 1.5.9 Centrifuge the marrow suspension at 180 × g for 5 min which results in a cell pellet. Aspirate the supernatant and resuspend the pellet in 10 mL complete culture medium by pipetting it repeatedly using 1 mL pipette tips (with cut ends) to obtain the homogenous cell suspension. 1.5.10 Plate the cell suspension containing the marrow cells onto the surface of 75 cm 2  flasks and incubate at 37⁰C in a 5% CO2 atmosphere. 1.5.11 Change medium every 2–3 days until the cells become confluent. It typically takes about one week to reach 80–90% confluency.
L44:We have provided comprehensive steps for harvesting BM-MSCs and ASCs from mice.  Figure 1  depicts the isolation procedure for BM-MSCs from the tibiae and femurs of the mice.  Figure 2  demonstrates the customized tube preparation required to flush the bone marrow from the tibiae and femurs of mice.  Figure 3  illustrates the procedure for isolating ASCs from various murine adipose tissue depots (subcutaneous, gonadal and retroperitoneal). It is widely appreciated in the literature that the proliferation and differentiation potential of stem cells decline with age. Chaudhary  et al . demonstrated that proliferation was higher in cultures of MSCs isolated from young mice (2–3 months) than in those isolated from aged mice (23–24 months) [ 24 ]. As per our experience, the most appropriate age of mice for the extraction of BM-MSCs is between 4–6 weeks and that of ASCs is between 6–8 weeks. If one aims to extract both BM-MSCs and ASCs from the same mice, we suggest using 6-week old mice as it allows efficient harvesting of MSCs from both sources. To ensure that the functional status of the isolated stem cells is maximally preserved, it is essential to process the harvested bone marrow and adipose tissue quickly, ideally within 30 min. Several methods have been described for harvesting bone marrow from bones. Bone marrow can be efficiently removed from long bones by either flushing the bones with a liquid-filled syringe, or by applying a centrifugal force to the bones [ 25 , 26 ]. We favour and describe here the centrifuge-based method as it is very convenient, considerably f
L48:Freshly harvested macrophage-depleted BM-MSCs as well as ASCs proliferated efficiently, gradually expanded in cell size and reached confluency at ~ 5–6 d (ASCs) or at ~ 10–12 d (BM-MSCs). We analysed and validated both freshly isolated cells and cells that were first frozen in liquid nitrogen and then thawed. Both freshly harvested and frozen/thawed BM-MSCs and ASCs showed a typical spindle-shaped fibroblast-like appearance ( Figure 4 ). The presence of macrophages was apparent in BM-MSC cultures that were not depleted for macrophages, and these BM-MSCs proliferated less than the macrophage-depleted BM-MSCs (Supplemental  Figure 1A,B ). To analyse typical stem cell markers, we performed flow cytometry using antibodies against MSC markers CD29, CD44, and CD90.2, and haematopoietic stem cell markers CD34 and CD45 ( Figure 5 ). Both freshly harvested and frozen/thawed macrophage-depleted BM-MSCs were strongly positive for CD44 and CD29 but negative for CD34 and CD45 ( Figure 5A,B ). As expected, non-macrophage-depleted BM-MSCs were positive for CD34 and CD45 (Supplemental  Figure 1C ). Thus, the flow cytometric analysis demonstrated effective macrophage depletion to an extent that we do not expect an effect of any residual macrophages on adipogenic differentiation and function. Similarly, freshly isolated and frozen/thawed ASCs were strongly positive for CD29, CD44, and CD90.2 but negative for CD34 and CD45, indicating the absence of macrophages ( Figure 5C,D ). Therefore, macrophage depletion was not required for the ASC preparations. The data clearly demonstrate that the
L102: A , et al .  The cellular composition and function of the bone marrow niche after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation .  Bone Marrow Transplant .  2022 ; 57 ( 9 ): 1357 – 1364 . doi:  10.1038/s41409-022-01728-0 
L174: CL , et al .  Enhanced adipogenic differentiation of bovine bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells .  J Appl Anim Res .  2015 ; 43 ( 1 ): 15 – 21 . doi:  10.1080/09712119.2014.883320 
L183: AP .  Expression patterns of transcription factor PPARgamma and C/EBP family members during in vitro adipogenesis of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells .  Cell Biol Int .  2015 ; 39 ( 4 ): 457 – 465 . doi:  10.1002/cbin.10415 
L223: N .  Immune cell isolation from mouse femur bone marrow .  Bio-Protocol .  2015 ; 5 ( 20 ). doi:  10.21769/BioProtoc.1631 
L231: S .  Bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells from aged mice have reduced wound healing, angiogenesis, proliferation and anti-apoptosis capabilities .  Cell Biol Int .  2012 ; 36 ( 8 ): 747 – 753 . doi:  10.1042/CBI20110183 
L245: I .  Isolation of murine bone marrow by centrifugation or flushing for the analysis of hematopoietic cells – a comparative study .  Platelets .  2021 ; 32 ( 5 ): 601 – 607 . doi:  10.1080/09537104.2020.1797323 
L250: N .  Flow cytometry-based analysis of the mouse bone marrow stromal and perivascular compartment .  Methods Mol Biol .  2021 ; 2308 : 83 – 94 . doi:  10.1007/978-1-0716-1425-9_7 .  PMID: 34057716. 34057716
[59ms]
