L1:Hypoxia-preconditioned bone marrow–derived mesenchymal stem cells protect neurons from cardiac arrest–induced pyroptosis
L9:bone marrow–derived mesenchymal stem cells; cardiac arrest; cardiac resuscitation; hypoxic preconditioning; liver isoform of phosphofructokinase; mitochondria; neuroinflammation; oxidative stress; pyroptosis; reactive oxygen species
L22:Following anesthesia by inhalation of 2% sevoflurane (AbbVie, Osaka, Japan), the rats were euthanized by cervical dislocation. The femurs and tibias were carefully extracted from both legs, and any surrounding soft tissue was meticulously removed. BMSCs were isolated from the bone marrow cavity by flushing with Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium-F12 (DMEM-F12, Gibco, New York, NY, USA). The cell suspensions were collected and centrifuged at 350 ×  g  for 5 minutes, then resuspended in DMEM-F12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (Clark, Richmond, VA, USA). The cells were seeded into cell culture flasks (4 mL/flask) and incubated at 37°C with 5% CO 2 . The culture medium was refreshed every 48 hours. When the cells reached 90% confluency, they were detached from the culture flask using 0.25% trypsin-ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (Gibco) and passaged at the same cell density ratio (1:2) for each passage. Third- to fifth-passage BMSCs were used for all subsequent experiments. BMSC-specific surface antigens were detected by flow cytometry (Lin et al., 2020) using CD29-FITC, CD90-PE, CD11b-PE, and CD45-FITC antibodies (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA). Furthermore, differentiated BMSCs were identified through alizarin red staining for osteogenesis and Oil Red O staining for adipogenesis. BMSC differentiation was induced using kits purchased from HyCyte (Haixing Bioscience, Suzhou, China).
L46:We next established an asphyxial CA model according to a previously described protocol, with some modifications (Lin et al., 2020). Prior to the surgical procedure, all rats underwent a 12-hour fasting period during which they had unrestricted access to water. Anesthesia was induced with 2% sevoflurane, followed by intraperitoneal administration of pentobarbital sodium (45 mg/kg; Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) to maintain a deep level of anesthesia. Subsequently, each rats was intubated with a 14-gauge intravenous catheter (BD) and connected to a small animal ventilator (Alcott Biotech, Shanghai, China). The ventilator parameters were configured as follows: a respiratory rate of 100 times per minute, a tidal volume of 6.5 mL/kg, and an inhaled oxygen concentration of 21%. Additionally, a PE-30 tubing (SDR Scientific, Sydney, Australia) was introduced into the right femoral artery for continuous monitoring of mean arterial blood pressure (MAP). Conventional lead II electrocardiogram readings were monitored continuously. Both MAP and electrocardiogram signals were recorded using a Power Lab data acquisition instrument (AD Instruments, Sydney, Australia). Core body temperature was continuously monitored throughout the surgical procedure using a rectal probe and maintained within a narrow range of 36.5 to 37°C with an automated heating blanket (RWD Life Science, Shenzhen, China).
L47:Baseline physiological measurements were obtained for 5 minutes. After injection of vecuronium (Xianju Pharmaceutical, Taizhou, China, 1 mg/kg) into the right femoral artery, asphyxia was induced by turning off the ventilator. CA was defined as MAP < 25 mmHg and was maintained for 8 minutes ( Additional Figure 1 A ). Subsequently, rats were mechanically ventilated at 7 minutes 45 seconds post-CA with pure oxygen, while other ventilator parameters were maintained at the previously described settings. At 8 minutes after CA, manual chest compressions were initiated at a rate of 200 compressions per minute. The depth of these compressions was adjusted to maintain the MAP above 25 mmHg. One minute after starting chest compressions, epinephrine (0.05 mg/kg) and unfractionated heparin (0.5 IU in 0.1 mL) were injected into the right femoral artery. ROSC was defined as MAP > 60 mmHg lasting at least 5 minutes. If the spontaneous circulation was not restored, CPR was considered unsuccessful. During the monitoring period, pure oxygen ventilation was provided for 1 hour following initiation of resuscitation. Subsequently, the inhaled oxygen concentration was adjusted to 21% for an additional hour. After 2 hours of ROSC, the endotracheal tube and intra-arterial catheter were removed, and the right femoral artery was ligated, followed by closure of the incision. At the end of the operation, all rats received a 0.4-mL intraperitoneal injection of penicillin (10,000 IU). The entire process was performed by the same investigator for each rat, and none of the rats developed infections at
L48:Figure 1 HP-BMSCs suppress OGD-induced neuronal pyroptosis to some extent by inhibiting the MAPK and NF-κB pathways. (A) From left to right: BMSCs at passage 3 (P3), osteogenic differentiation BMSCs, and adipogenic differentiation BMSCs. The cells are typically spindle-shaped. Scale bars: 100 μm. (B) Flow cytometric analysis showing the expression of BMSC surface markers. The cells expressed CD29 and CD90 but did not express CD11b and CD45. (C) Immunofluorescence staining of primary cultured neurons for MAP2 (red, Alexa Fluor 594), whereas nuclei were labeled with DAPI (blue). Scale bars: 75 μm. (D) Western blotting analysis was performed to evaluate the expression of NLRP3, GSDMD-N, ASC, cleaved-caspase-1, NF-κB, JNK, and p38 MAPK in primary neurons from the indicated group ( n  = 3). The results of parallel test were shown in  Additional Figure 2 . (E–K) Quantitative analysis of NLRP3 (E), GSDMD-N (F), ASC (G), cleaved-caspase-1 (H), NF-κB (I), JNK (J), and p38 MAPK (K) protein expression levels as shown in D. Results are expressed as mean ± SD. * P  < 0.05,  vs . control group; # P  < 0.05,  vs . OGD group; & P  < 0.05,  vs . OGD + N-BMSCs group; $ P  < 0.05,  vs . OGD + HP-BMSCs group (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s multiple comparisons test). BMSCs: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HP-BMSCs: hypoxia preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; N-BMSCs: normal-cultured BMSCs; OGD: oxygen-glucose deprivation.
L49:Figure 2 Transcriptome sequencing of BMSCs following hypoxic preconditioning (HP). (A) Volcano plot of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between N-BMSCs and HP-BMSCs. The  X -axis shows the log2 fold change in gene expression, while the  Y -axis represents statistical significance for each gene. The red dots denote upregulated DEGs, while the blue dots represent downregulated DEGs. (B) Hierarchical cluster analysis of DEGs. The color (from blue to red) represents DEGs’ expression level from low to high. The color bar denotes expression level estimated through log10 normalized FPKM. (C) GO classification analysis. (D) Top 20 KEGG pathway enrichment analysis. The bubble scale represents the number of DEGs; the depth of the bubble color represents the P value. The red box highlights the key role of the glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathway after HP. (E) Western blotting results showing PFKL expression in the indicated groups ( n  = 3). The results of parallel test were shown in  Additional Figure 1 C. (F) Quantitative analysis of PFKL protein levels. Results are expressed as mean ± SD.* P  < 0.05,  vs . N-BMSCs group; # P  < 0.05,  vs.  si-NC HP-BMSCs group (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s multiple comparisons test). BMSCs: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HP-BMSCs: hypoxia preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; N-BMSCs: normal-cultured BMSCs; PFKL: liver isoform of phosphofructokinase.
L100:Figure 3 PFKL modulates the biological function of HP-BMSCs  in vitro  and  in vivo. (A, B) The apoptosis rate of HP-BMSCs in the indicated groups was analyzed by flow cytometric analysis ( n  = 4). (C, D) Representative Transwell photographs of HP-BMSCs migration and the number of migrated HP-BMSCs quantified in different groups ( n  = 4). Compared with si-NC HP-BMSCs, the migratory capacity of HP-BMSCs decreased after knocking down PFKL. Scale bars: 200 μm. (E) The representative results of the cell cycle. (F) The percentage of S and G2/M phases in each group of HP-BMSCs. (G) The percentage distribution of the cell cycle phases (G0/G1, S, and G2/M) in each group of HP-BMSCs. (H) Schematic diagram of CPR rat model. Created with Figdraw. (I) Small animal live imaging of intracerebroventricular (ICV) injected HP-BMSCs in ROSC rats. (J) The bioluminescence intensity from the regions of interest (ROI,  n  = 3). All results are expressed as means ± SD. * P  < 0.05,  vs . si-NC HP-BMSCs group; # P  < 0.05,  vs . CPR + PBS group; & P  < 0.05,  vs . CPR + si-NC-BMSCs group (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s multiple comparisons test). CPR: Cardiopulmonary resuscitation; HP-BMSCs: hypoxia preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PFKL: liver isoform of phosphofructokinase; ROSC: return of spontaneous circulation.
L104:Figure 4 PFKL mediates the neuroprotective and antioxidant effects of HP-BMSCs in CPR rats. (A) Neurological deficit scores (NDS) in four group (CPR + PBS, CPR + HP-BMSCs, CPR + si NC HP-BMSCs, CPR + si-PFKL HP-BMSCs,  n  = 8). The black line represents the NDS levels in the sham group. (B) Serum S100B levels after treatment as indicated ( n  = 8). (C) Nissl staining of rat brains after CPR in different group (sham, CPR + PBS, CPR + HP-BMSCs, CPR + si NC HP-BMSCs, CPR + si-PFKL HP-BMSCs,  n  = 8). After 24 hours of resuscitation, the number of Nissl bodies in the rat cortex significantly decreased, and transplantation of HP-BMSCs could alleviate the reduction of Nissl bodies. However, this effect of HP-BMSCs was reversed after knocking down PFKL. Scale bars: 100 μm (upper) or 50 μm (lower). (D) The AOD of cortical neurons by Nissl staining. (E, F) Representative immunohistochemical staining of 4-HNE (E) and 8-OHdG (F) in cortex following ROSC. After transplantation of HP-BMSCs, the expression of 4-HNE and 8-OHdG in the cortex of CA/CPR rats significantly decreased, whereas this effect was attenuated after knocking down PFKL. The selected areas (black frame) were displayed at a higher magnification level. Scale bars: 70 μm (upper) or 50 μm (lower). (G, H) Percentage of 4-HNE-positive cells (G) and 8-OHdG-positive cells (H) in immunohistochemical images ( n  = 8). (I–K) Histograms show the expression of SOD (I), GSH-Px (J) and MDA (K).  n  = 6 rats per group. (L) Representative images show iNOS (green, Alexa Fluor 488) immunostaining with NeuN (red, CY3) and DAPI (blue) 
L108:Figure 5 PFKL-mediated HP-BMSCs inhibit CA/CPR-induced neuronal pyroptosis. (A) The activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome results in membrane pore formation and pyroptosis, (B) Expression of pyroptosis-associated protein (NLRP3, GSDMD-N, ASC, and cleaved-caspase-1) in the indicated groups ( n  = 3). The results of parallel test were shown in  Additional Figure 4 . (C–F) Quantitative analysis of NLRP3 (C), GSDMD-N (D), ASC (E), and cleaved-caspase-1 (F) protein levels shown in B. (G, H) ELISA of IL-1β (G) and IL-18 (H) in brains of differently treated rats ( n  = 6). (I) TEM images of neurons in CA/CPR rats in the five groups (sham, CPR + PBS, CPR + HP-BMSCs, CPR + si NC HP-BMSCs, CPR + si-PFKL HP-BMSCs). After 24 hours of CA, the neuronal cell membranes in the rat cortex were significantly ruptured. Transplantation of HP-BMSCs improved this neuronal damage. However, this improvement was reversed after transfection of si-RNA targeting PFKL. Images of selected regions (blue squares) are shown at a higher magnification. Neuronal membrane integrity is depicted by the blue line ( n  = 3). Scale bars: 5 µm (upper) or 2 µm (lower). (J) Quantitative measurement of membrane pore numbers in different groups of neurons. Fifteen neurons were measured for each group, and at least three samples were analyzed from different rats in each group. Results are expressed as means ± SD (C–H) or median and interquartile range (J). * P  < 0.05,  vs.  sham group; # P  < 0.05,  vs.  CPR + PBS group; & P  < 0.05,  vs . CPR + si-NC-BMSCs group (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s mult
L111:Figure 6 PFKL regulation of the HP-BMSCs involves ameliorating mitochondrial damage in rat brains post-resuscitation. (A) Representative TEM images of neurons and mitochondria in neurons in the indicated groups. Compared with the sham group, the mitochondria of rat neurons were significantly damaged and swollen after CA. The mitochondrial morphology improved after transplantation of HP-BMSCs. However, this improvement by HP-BMSCs was reversed after transfection with si-PFKL. The selected areas (red frame) were displayed at a higher magnification level. Red arrowheads point to the mitochondria of different treatment groups ( n  = 3). Scale bars: 5 nm (upper) or 500 µm (lower). (B) The area of individual mitochondria was quantitatively measured using TEM. 60 mitochondria were analyzed per group, and at least three samples from different rats were analyzed in each group. (C, D) Quantification of brain ATP (C) and NAD + /NADH ratio (D) in the differently treated groups ( n  = 6). (E) Western blots of BDNF and mitochondrial damage markers (FIS1, COX IV, TOM20) in brain tissues of rats in the indicated groups ( n  = 3). The results of parallel test were shown in  Additional Figure 4 . (F–I) Quantitative analysis of BDNF (F), FIS1 (G), COX IV (H), and TOM20 (I) protein levels as shown in E. Results expressed as median and interquartile range (B) or means ± SD (C, D and F–I). * P  < 0.05,  vs.  sham group; # P  < 0.05 , vs . CPR + PBS group; & P  < 0.05,  vs . CPR + si-NC-BMSCs group (Kruskal–Wallis test followed by Dunn’s multiple comparisons test in B; one-way analysis of va
L114:Figure 7 PFKL modulates the anti-pyroptotic and antiapoptotic capacity of HP-BMSCs, which confer neuroprotection in OGD‐induced neuronal injury. (A–D) Line charts show the OCR changes in neurons in different groups. From the left to the right: OGD group (A), OGD + si-NC HP-BMSCs group (B), OGD + si NC HP-BMSCs + Mito Tempo group (C), OGD + si-PFKL HP-BMSCs group (D). In all these experiments, non-treated neurons were used as a control ( n  = 9). (E) OCR level in control group of each experiment was used to normalize the data. Bar chart represents relative OCR as shown in A–D. (F–I) Stacked bar charts show the ATP production rate in neurons in different groups. From the left to the right: OGD group (F), OGD + si-NC HP-BMSCs group (G), OGD + si NC HP-BMSCs + Mito Tempo group (H), OGD + si-PFKL HP-BMSCs group (I). In all these experiments, non-treated neurons were used as a control ( n  = 3). (J) The level of ATP production in the control group of each experiment was used to normalize the data. The bar chart represents the relative ATP production rate as shown in F–I. (K, L) The apoptosis rate of neurons was analyzed by flow cytometric analysis ( n  = 3). (M) Western blots of pyroptosis-associated protein (NLRP3, GSDMD-N, ASC, cleaved-caspase-1) and apoptosis-associated protein (Bcl-2, Bak, activated-caspase-3) in brain tissues of rats in the indicated groups ( n  = 3). The results of parallel test were shown in  Additional Figure 5 . (N–T) Quantitative analysis of NLRP3 (N), GSDMD-N (O), ASC (P), cleaved-caspase-1 (Q), Bcl-2 (R), Bak (S), and activated-caspase-3 (T) prot
L117:Figure 8 PFKL is involved in HP-BMSCs-mediated suppression of mitochondrial oxidative damage in post-OGD neurons. (A) JC-1 staining of MMP (red fluorescence represents aggregates; green fluorescence represents monomers) in primary neurons of each group ( n  = 4). Si-NC HP-BMSCs significantly promoted the recovery of MMP in neurons after OGD. Additionally, the addition of Mito-TEMPO in the co-culture system further enhanced the MMP. However, this improvement in MMP was significantly weakened when HP-BMSCs were transfected with PFKL siRNA. Scale bars: 75 µm. (B) Quantitative analysis of the changes in JC-1 red/green fluorescence ratio. (C) ROS generation in primary neurons was assayed by DCFH–DA staining ( n  = 4). OGD induction significantly increased the intracellular ROS levels in neurons, while HP-BMSCs could significantly decrease the intracellular ROS levels. When neurons were co-cultured with si-PFKL HP-BMSCs, the aforementioned antioxidative stress effect was observed to be weakened. Scale bars: 100 µm. (D) Relative fluorescence intensity of ROS. (E) Mitochondrial ROS levels in primary neurons were measured by MitoSOX Red (red), DAPI (blue,  n  = 4). Co-culturing with SI-NC HP-BMSCs reduced the mitochondrial ROS levels in neurons after OGD. However, when the expression of PFKL in HP-BMSCs was knocked down, this anti-mitochondrial oxidative effect was reversed. Scale bars: 75 µm. (F) Relative MitoSOX fluorescent intensity. (G) Western blots of mitochondrial damage markers (FIS1, COX IV, TOM20) in brain tissues of rats in the indicated groups ( n  = 3). The results
L120:Figure 9 PFKL mediates anti-pyroptotic effects and mitochondrial protection of HP-BMSCs after global cerebral IRI. CA/CPR activates the MAPK and NF-κB pathways and induces mitochondrial ROS generation, which promotes the assembly of the NLRP3 inflammasome and ultimately leads to pyroptosis. HP-BMSCs modulate the pyroptosis activation by inhibiting both the MAPK/NF-κB pathway and mitochondrial oxidative stress. Meanwhile, PFKL mediates these two protective effects of HP-BMSCs, reducing intracellular ROS levels and decreasing cell pyroptosis, eventually leading to improved neural function after ROSC. CA: Cardiac arrest; CPR: cardiopulmonary resuscitation; HP-BMSCs: hypoxia preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; IRI: ischemia/reperfusion injury; PFKL: liver isoform of phosphofructokinase; ROS: reactive oxygen species; ROSC: return of spontaneous circulation.
L146:Additional Figure 1 Physiological monitoring data during the modeling process and western blot bands of PFKL. (A) The representative waveforms of femoral arterial pressure (red line) and electrocardiogram (green line) during the process of model establishment (horizontal scaling = 1000:1). (B) Cell viability was detected by the CCK8 assay. All results are expressed as mean ± SD ( n  = 7).  * P  < 0.05,  vs . the si-NC HP-BMSCs group. (C) Three replicates of western blot bands for PFKL. BMSCs: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; CA: Cardiac arrest; CPR: cardiopulmonary resuscitation; HP-BMSCs: hypoxic preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; N-BMSCs: normal-cultured BMSCs; PFKL: liver isoform of phosphofructokinase; ROSC: return of spontaneous circulation.
L147:Additional Figure 2 Uncropped western blot images corresponding to  Figure 1D . The membrane was cut based on molecular weight of different proteins and the molecular marker was shown in each blot. The whole blot after cutting membrane for NLRP3 (115 kDa), GSDMD-N (50 kDa), ASC (21 kDa), cleaved-caspase-1 (20 kDa), NF-κB (65 kDa), JNK (44 kDa), p38 (38 kDa), and β-actin (40 kDa) were shown. HP-BMSCs: Hypoxic preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; N-BMSCs: normal-cultured BMSCs; OGD: oxygen-glucose deprivation; PFKL: liver isoform of phosphofructokinase.
L149:HP-BMSCs. (A) Western blotting results showing expression of PFKL in the indicated groups ( n  = 3). (B) Quantitative analysis of PFKL protein levels.  * P  < 0.05,  vs . N-BMSCs group;  # P  < 0.05,  vs . oe-NC HP-BMSCs (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s multiple comparisons test). (C, D) The apoptosis rate of neurons was analyzed by flow cytometric analysis ( n  = 3). (E) Western blots of pyroptosis-associated protein (NLRP3, GSDMD-N, ASC, cleaved-caspase-1) and apoptosis-associated protein (Bcl-2, Bak, activated-caspase-3) in brain tissues of rats in the indicated groups ( n  = 3). The results of parallel test were shown in Additional Figure 6. (F-L) Quantitative analysis of NLRP3 (F), GSDMD-N (G), ASC (H), cleaved-caspase-1 (I), Bcl-2 (G), Bak (K), and activated-caspase-3 (L) protein levels as shown in E. Results are expressed as means ± SD.  * P  < 0.05, vs. control group;  # P  < 0.05,  vs . OGD group;  & P  < 0.05, vs. OGD + oe-NC-BMSCs group (one-way analysis of variance followed by Tukey’s multiple comparisons test). BMSCs: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HP-BMSCs: hypoxic preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; N-BMSCs: normal-cultured BMSCs; OGD: oxygen-glucose deprivation; PFKL: Liver isoform of phosphofructokinase.
L150:Additional Figure 4 Uncropped western blot images corresponding to Figures  5 B and  6 E. The membrane was cut based on molecular weight of different proteins and the molecular marker was shown in each blot. The whole blot after cutting membrane for NLRP3 (115 kDa), GSDMD-N (50 kDa), ASC (21 kDa), cleaved-caspase-1 (20 kDa), BDNF (28 kDa), FIS1 (17 kDa), COX IV (17 kDa), TOM20 (16 kDa), and β-actin (42 kDa) were shown. HP-BMSCs: Hypoxic preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; PFKL: live isoform of phosphofructokinase.
L151:Additional Figure 5 Uncropped western blot images corresponding to Figures  7 M and  8 G. The membrane was cut based on molecular weight of different proteins and the molecular marker was shown in each blot. The whole blot after cutting membrane for NLRP3 (115 kDa), GSDMD-N (50 kDa), ASC (21 kDa), cleaved-caspase-1 (20 kDa), Bcl-2 (26 kDa), Bak (23kDa), actived-caspase-3 (17 kDa), FIS1 (17 kDa), COX IV (17 kDa), TOM20 (16 kDa), and β-actin (42 kDa) wer shown. HP-BMSCs: Hypoxic preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; OGD: oxygen-glucose deprivation; PFKL: liver isoform of phosphofructokinase.
L152:Additional Figure 6 Uncropped western blot images corresponding to  Figure 5 . The membrane was cut based on molecular weight of different proteins and the molecular marker was shown in each blot. This figure shows the whole blot after cutting membrane for PFKL (85 kDa), NLRP3 (115 kDa), GSDMD-N (50 kDa), ASC (21 kDa), cleaved-caspase-1 (20 kDa), Bcl-2 (26 kDa), Bak (23 kDa), actived-caspase-3 (17 kDa), and β-actin (42 kDa). BMSCs: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HP-BMSCs: hypoxic preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; N-BMSCs: normal-cultured BMSCs; OGD: oxygen-glucose deprivation; PFKL: liver isoform of phosphofructokinase.
L241: Tuan RS 2014 Human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells display enhanced clonogenicity but impaired differentiation with hypoxic preconditioning Stem Cells Transl Med 3 241 254 24436440
L272: Wang G 2017 Hypoxic preconditioning augments the therapeutic efficacy of bone marrow stromal cells in a rat ischemic stroke model Cell Mol Neurobiol 37 1115 1129 27858286
L445: Fu R 2020 Iron overload impairs bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells from higher-risk MDS patients by regulating the ROS-related Wnt/β-catenin pathway Stem Cells Int 2020 8855038 33178287
L457: Shi HB 2019 Hypoxic conditioned medium derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells protects against ischemic stroke in rats J Cell Physiol 234 1354 1368 30076722
L534: Chen F 2020 Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation attenuates overexpression of inflammatory mediators in rat brain after cardiopulmonary resuscitation Neural Regen Res 15 324 331 31552906
L573: Huang G 2021d Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes attenuate cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury-induced neuroinflammation and pyroptosis by modulating microglia M1/M2 phenotypes Exp Neurol 341 113700 33741350
L601: Zhou Y 2019 Hypoxia preconditioning promotes bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells survival by inducing HIF-1α in injured neuronal cells derived exosomes culture system Cell Death Dis 10 134 30755595
L719: Wei L 2015 Intranasal delivery of hypoxia-preconditioned bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells enhanced regenerative effects after intracerebral hemorrhagic stroke in mice Exp Neurol 272 78 87 25797577
L809: Wei L 2013 Delayed intranasal delivery of hypoxic-preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells enhanced cell homing and therapeutic benefits after ischemic stroke in mice Cell Transplant 22 977 991 23031629
L1040:BMSCs: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; CPR: cardiopulmonary resuscitation; HP-BMSCs: hypoxic
L1041:preconditioned bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; ROSC: return of spontaneous circulation.
L1070:BMSCs: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; CPR: cardiopulmonary resuscitation; HP-BMSCs: hypoxic preconditioned bone
[43ms]
