L1:Phenotypic comparison and the potential antitumor function of immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages (iBMDMs)
L13:Macrophages are an important component of innate immunity and involved in the immune regulation of multiple diseases. The functional diversity and plasticity make macrophages to exhibit different polarization phenotypes after different stimuli. During tumor progression, the M2-like polarized tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) promote tumor progression by assisting immune escape, facilitating tumor cell metastasis, and switching tumor angiogenesis. Our previous studies demonstrated that functional remodeling of TAMs through engineered-modifying or gene-editing provides the potential immunotherapy for tumor. However, lack of proliferation capacity and maintained immune memory of infused macrophages restricts the application of macrophage-based therapeutic strategies in the repressive tumor immune microenvironment (TIME). Although J2 retrovirus infection enabled immortalization of bone marrow-derived macrophages (iBMDMs) and facilitated the mechanisms exploration and application, little is known about the phenotypic and functional differences among multi kinds of macrophages.
L25:Currently, the majority of macrophage sources for basic research and immunotherapy exploration consist of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) ( 17 – 19 ), induced pluripotent stem cell-derived macrophages (iPS-Mφ) ( 20 – 22 ) and the RAW264.7 cell line ( 23 – 25 ). BMDMs are fully developed and function regulable and are more suitable for  in vitro  experiments and  in vivo  verification. However, the BMDMs could not achieve stable genotypic transformation due to proliferation limitations. Flexible gene editing and functional modification are advantages of iPS-Mφs in cellular immunotherapy. It is extremely costly and difficult to obtain and culture iPS-Mφs. Meanwhile, it has been reported that iPS-Mφs present an M2-like polarization phenotype, which is not appropriate for tumor immunotherapy ( 26 ). RAW264.7 is a kind of fusion-immortalized monocyte-macrophage line of BALB/c mouse origin that was established from murine tumors induced with Abelson leukemia virus by Raschke et al. in 1978 ( 27 ). The RAW264.7 cells were only used for some  in vitro  experiments of macrophage function analysis ( 28 ). Therefore, it is crucial to seek effective and safe cell sources for macrophage immunotherapy.
L26:A growing amount of evidence highlights the intriguing possibility that macrophage immortalization may be a viable strategy for macrophage-based immunotherapy. J2 retrovirus infection-enabled immortalization has been successfully applied to fetal liver macrophages, spleen macrophages, microglia, and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) ( 29 – 32 ). Immortalized macrophages express surface biomarkers of macrophages and possess typical functional characteristics. In addition, they share strong proliferation ability and long-term survival potential. Therefore, gene-edited immortalized macrophages are easy to construct, which facilitates the advancement of macrophage regulatory mechanisms. The study by Iolanda Spera et al. in 2021 detected and analyzed the functions of the immortalized BMDM (iBMDM) cell lineage from a metabolic point of view ( 33 ). By determining intracellular and extracellular metabolites as well as the phenotypic characteristics of immortalized versus primary BMDMs, it was concluded that immortalized BMDMs exhibited similar metabolism and polarization characteristics under both classical and alternative stimulation. However, no study has systematically evaluated and compared the biosafety, immunological characteristics and antitumor functions of iBMDMs. In this study, we detected the proliferation efficiency and survival time of iBMDMs both  in vitro  and  in vivo , indicating that iBMDMs have good biosafety and low immunogenicity. Immunology tests and coculture experiments with tumor cells were used to analyze the effect of iBMDMs on the malignant bi
L31:iBMDMs, RAW264.7 cells, and LLC cells were cultured in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (DMEM) (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) containing 10% fetal calf serum (FCS). BMDMs were extracted from the bone marrow of C57BL/6 mice and cultured in DMEM supplemented with 10% FCS and 25 ng/mL murine macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) (PeproTech, Rocky Hill, NJ) for 7 days, and flow cytometry analysis was used to detect the stimulation efficiency of BMDMs. The GFP fragment was inserted into the viral vector and then infected into iBMDM to construct a stable cell line for subsequent experiments. In polarization-related experiments, macrophages were stimulated with IFN-γ (20 ng/mL, PeproTech, Rocky Hill, NJ), LPS (50 ng/mL, Sigma, St. Louis, MO) or IL4 (20 ng/mL, PeproTech, Rocky Hill, NJ) for 24 h and then used in follow-up experiments.
L130:Macrophages are considered as the key immune regulator during tumor initiation and development. Macrophages not only contribute to the recruitment and activation of immune cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) but also play an important role in tumor cell metastasis ( 41 ). Targeting tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) is currently considered a promising strategy for combating cancer ( 42 ). How to polarize TAMs to an antitumor state without affecting macrophage activity is of great research significance to reduce tumor growth and metastasis. The current understanding of the mechanisms involved in controlling the cancer and metastatic cascade response remains limited. Studies of mechanisms that regulate innate immune activation require  in vitro  cellular experiments or  in vivo  therapeutic validation. Currently, the most common used cell resources for macrophage research are BMDMs and RAW264.7 cells ( 28 ). BMDMs, as primary bone marrow-derived cells, need to be obtained from the bone marrow followed by stimulation and cultivation with different cytokines, which requires much more time and cost. Meanwhile, the short survival time of BMDMs is not suitable for establishing a stable transduced cell line, which limits their application for  in vivo  transfusion therapy ( 43 ). In contrast, RAW264.7 is a type of peritoneal macrophage from confluent mice that has immunogenicity and tumor-promoting properties and is not suitable for  in vivo  reperfusion therapy. Immortalized macrophages may help meet the current needs of reducing macrophage research costs and establish
L174:19 Toda G Yamauchi T Kadowaki T Ueki K .  Preparation and culture of bone marrow-derived macrophages from mice for functional analysis .  STAR Protoc . ( 2021 )  2 : 100246 . doi:  10.1016/j.xpro.2020.100246 
L190:29 Blasi E Mathieson BJ Varesio L Cleveland JL Borchert PA Rapp UR .  Selective immortalization of murine macrophages from fresh bone marrow by a raf/myc recombinant murine retrovirus .  Nature . ( 1985 )  318 : 667–70 . doi:  10.1038/318667a0
L192:31 Cox GW Mathieson BJ Gandino L Blasi E Radzioch D Varesio L .  Heterogeneity of hematopoietic cells immortalized by v-myc/v-raf recombinant retrovirus infection of bone marrow or fetal liver .  J Natl Cancer Inst . ( 1989 )  81 : 1492–6 . doi:  10.1093/jnci/81.19.1492
L208:43 Mendoza R Banerjee I Manna D Reghupaty SC Yetirajam R Sarkar D .  Mouse bone marrow cell isolation and macrophage differentiation .  Methods Mol Biol . ( 2022 )  2455 : 85 – 91 . doi:  10.1007/978-1-0716-2128-8_8
[110ms]
