L1:Protocol for isolating and characterizing extracellular vesicles by ultracentrifugation from bone marrow-derived macrophages
L5:Extracellular vesicles (EVs) enable the transmission of crucial molecular components between the parental and recipient cells. Macrophages can polarize into two distinct macrophage phenotypes, thereby exerting diverse effects on recipient cells. Here, we present a protocol for the direct isolation of EVs from bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) using ultracentrifugation. We describe steps for culturing BMDMs and macrophage polarization. We then detail procedures for further characterizing the isolated EVs using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), western blotting, and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA).
L9:Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) are considered crucial carriers that mediate the immunoregulatory functions of macrophages, influence the microenvironment, and participate in intercellular communication. Investigating the effects of EVs from BMDMs under different polarization states on downstream cells (such as other immune cells, tumor cells, endothelial cells, etc.) is crucial for elucidating the pathophysiological mechanisms related to macrophages. Here, we provide a comprehensive protocol for isolating EVs by ultracentrifugation from mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages, followed by further characterization of the isolated EVs using transmission electron microscopy, western blotting, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. We have applied this protocol to directly isolate EVs from BMDMs using ultracentrifugation and characterize them. This protocol can also be utilized for isolating and characterizing EVs derived from other cell types. Furthermore, the generation and culture of BMDMs in this protocol are equally suitable for investigating the roles of macrophages in various diseases.
L22: 7. Pre-cooling centrifuges and their rotors. 8. Dissolve macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). a. Before opening, centrifuge the vial containing M-CSF lyophilized powder at 1000 ×  g  for 5 min at 4°C. Note:  Allow the lyophilized powder adhering to the wall or cap to gather at the bottom of the vial to facilitate dissolution. b. Reconstitute to a concentration of 0.1–0.5 mg/mL in sterile distilled water or sterile PBS. Note:  Avoid vortex or vigorously pipetting the protein. c. Pipette gently several times and then let it stand for 5 min. d. Dispense the recombinant protein solution into autoclaved microcentrifuge tubes to reduce freeze/thaw cycles. Store in a −20°C refrigerator for up to 3 months.
L24:REAGENT or RESOURCE SOURCE IDENTIFIER Antibodies Anti-CD63 antibody (1:1,000 dilution) Abcam Cat # ab217345; RRID:  AB_2754982 Anti-GM130 antibody (1:500 dilution) BD Biosciences Cat # 610823; RRID:  AB_398142 Anti-TSG101 antibody (1:2,000 dilution) Abcam Cat # ab133586; RRID:  AB_2943043 Anti-rabbit IgG-HRP conjugate antibody (1:5,000 dilution) Cell Signaling Technology Cat # 7074S; RRID:  AB_2099233 Anti-mouse IgG-HRP conjugate antibody (1:5,000 dilution) Cell Signaling Technology Cat # 7076S; RRID:  AB_330924 Chemicals, peptides, and recombinant proteins Recombinant mouse CSF-1/M-CSF protein ABclonal Catalog # RP01216 Certified fetal bovine serum VivaCell Catalog # C04001-500 DMEM high-glucose medium VivaCell Catalog # C3113-0500 PBS, 1× (phosphate-buffered saline) Servicebio Catalog # G4202-500ML Penicillin-streptomycin solution VivaCell Catalog #C3420-0100 Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) solution eBioscience Catalog # 00-4976-93 Recombinant mouse/rat mature TGF-beta 1 protein ABclonal Catalog # RP00671 SDS-PAGE sample loading buffer, 5× Biosharp Catalog # BL502B 20× TBST buffer Solarbio Catalog # T1082 Skim milk powder Biosharp Catalog # BS102-500g Critical commercial assays Pierce BCA protein assay kit Thermo Fisher Scientific Catalog # 23225 Experimental models: Organisms/strains Mouse: C57BL/6 wild-type, 8–10 weeks old, males and females Specific pathogen-free laboratory animal center of Nanjing Medical University N/A Other Cell culture dish 100 × 20 mm Bioland Catalog # CCD06-100A 50 mL centrifuge tube Corning Catalog # 430829 Red blood cell lysis buffer Beyotime Cata
L26:Here, we describe the media components used to culture bone marrow-derived macrophages. BMDMs media Reagent Stock concentration Final concentration Amount DMEM high glucose medium N/A N/A 445 mL Certified Fetal Bovine Serum N/A 10% 50 mL Penicillin-Streptomycin Solution 10,000 U/mL 100 U/mL 5 mL Total N/A 500 mL Store at 4°C for up to 14 days.
L31:Figure 2 Treatment of leg bones (A) Rinse the tibia and femur with an appropriate amount of DMEM medium (without FBS). (B) Cut both ends of the bones and use a 1 mL syringe to infuse the marrow cavity.
L33:This step details how to generate bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) ( Figure 1 ). 1. Euthanize C57BL/6 mice (approximately 8–10 weeks old), spray 75% ethanol on the abdomen and lower regions of the mice, and place in a supine position.  Troubleshooting . 2. Eliminate the muscles and connective tissue carefully following separating the whole leg bones with scissors. Note:  Gauze can be used to assist in the separation of the connective tissue and muscles of the leg bones. 3. Use scissors to gently cut along the area above the femoral greater trochanter and below the ankle joint. 4. Cut the knee joint, separate the tibia and femur. Note:  Do not break the bones in steps 3 and 4, maintain the integrity of the bone marrow cavity. 5. Add an appropriate amount of 75% ethanol to a 10 cm diameter cell culture dish in advance, transfer the bones into it, and soak for 5 min. 6. Take another 10 cm cell culture dish and add 10 mL DMEM medium (without FBS) into it. 7. After rinsing the tibia and femur with an appropriate amount of DMEM medium (without FBS) ( Figure 2 A), place the bones into the dish from step 6. Figure 2 Treatment of leg bones (A) Rinse the tibia and femur with an appropriate amount of DMEM medium (without FBS). (B) Cut both ends of the bones and use a 1 mL syringe to infuse the marrow cavity. 8. Cut both ends of the bones and use a 1 mL syringe to aspirate an appropriate amount of DMEM medium without FBS to infuse the marrow cavity ( Figure 2 B). Note:  Each bone needs to be infused multiple times until it gradually turns white. 9. Pass the medium containing
L36:Macrophages exhibit remarkable plasticity. Various stimulation conditions, such as oxidized phospholipids, hypoxic environments, and metabolic products, can induce macrophages to polarize into distinct macrophage phenotypes with unique markers and functional characteristics, thereby exerting diverse effects on recipient cells. Among these, classically activated macrophages (M1) and alternatively activated macrophages (M2) represent the most classical and extensively studied subtypes. This section focuses on the M1/M2 classification to describe the polarization of macrophages. 20. If the cell confluency of BMDMs cultured for 6–7 days in step 19 reaches approximately 70%–80%, rinse with sterile 37°C PBS after discarding the medium in the dish. a. Preheat sterile PBS in a 37°C water bath. b. Aspirate and discard the medium (containing 10% FBS and 30 ng/mL M-CSF) from the 10 cm cell culture dish. c. Add PBS and repeat the washing step 2–3 times. Note:  Perform rinsing gently to avoid cell detachment. 21. Add 10 mL of preheated (37°C) DMEM medium (without FBS) to each 10 cm cell culture dish and incubate in a cell culture incubator for a minimum of 6 h to as long as 12 h. Note:  The length of serum starvation can vary depending on the cell sensitivity to nutrient deprivation. 22. After sufficient starvation, discard the medium from the dish. Add 10 mL DMEM medium (without FBS) supplemented with either M1 polarization agents (30 ng/mL M-CSF and 100 ng/mL LPS) or M2 polarization agents (30 ng/mL M-CSF and 2 ng/mL TGFβ1). 23. After 24 h of treatment, the cells are collected for
L48:Here, a detailed experimental protocol for the isolation and characterization of extracellular vesicles from mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). BMDMs are extracted from the leg bones of mice and cultured.  Figure 3  confirms the effectiveness of the differentiation into BMDMs. The cell culture medium of BMDMs is collected for centrifugation and ultracentrifugation, and then EVs are isolated from it. We recommend the use of further characterization analysis to evaluate the presence, purity, particle size, and concentration of the EV samples to further determine the validity and reproducibility of this protocol. The morphology of purified EVs from BMDMs can be characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) ( Figure 4 ).  Figure 5  provides a western blotting image, confirming the presence of EVs in the sample. The particle size and concentration of EVs derived from BMDMs are characterized by Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis (NTA). The measured size distribution of EVs is shown in  Figure 6 . It is worth noting that although we have used this protocol for studies mainly in BMDMs, our protocol is expected to be applicable to other types of cells as well. Figure 3 Flow cytometry analysis of BMDMs Representative flow plot identifying the differentiation of BMDMs analyzed by flow cytometry. Figure 4 TEM image of EVs from BMDMs EVs separated from BMDMs were imaged by TEM. Scale bar: 200 nm. Figure 5 Western blotting analysis of EV biomarkers The biomarkers of EVs from BMDMs were analyzed by western blot (TSG101, GM130, and CD63). Figure 6 Nanoparticle trackin
L51:Ultracentrifugation for extracellular vesicle (EV) isolation is an effective and reproducible strategy. However, compared to alternative isolation techniques such as size-exclusion chromatography and ultrafiltration, 4  the yield of EVs is relatively low, and constrained by rotor specifications and tube capacities in ultracentrifugation systems. The quantity of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) correlates with the number of leg bones, thereby restricting the application of ultracentrifugation. The culture time of BMDMs increases the time needed for EV extraction. Additionally, the duration required for EV isolation by ultracentrifugation further prolongs the overall process. In addition, each EV isolation method inherently contains a certain amount of contaminants, and ultracentrifugation is no exception. 5 , 6
L56:The quantity of BMDMs correlates with the number of leg bones. If the yield of BMDMs is low, the number of leg bones used for BMDM generation should be appropriately increased. In the process of taking mouse leg bones, the integrity of the bone marrow cavity should be maintained to avoid some leg bones being unavailable. In Step 8, when perfusing the bone marrow cavity with a 1 mL syringe, the cavity should be repeatedly flushed until the bone gradually turns white to fully collect bone marrow-derived cells.
[40ms]
