L7:Wnt/β-catenin signaling plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of chronic kidney diseases (CKD), which is associated with macrophage activation and polarization. However, the relative contribution of macrophage-derived Wnts in the evolution of CKD is poorly understood. Here we demonstrate a critical role of Wnts secreted by macrophages in regulating renal inflammation and fibrosis after various injuries. In mouse model of kidney fibrosis induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO), macrophages were activated and polarized to M1 and M2 subtypes, which coincided with the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling.  In vitro , multiple Wnts were induced in primary cultured bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) after polarization. Conversely, Wnt proteins also stimulated the activation and polarization of BMDMs to M1 and M2 subtype. Blockade of Wnt secretion from macrophages in mice with myeloid-specific ablation of Wntless (Wls), a cargo receptor that is obligatory for Wnt trafficking and secretion, blunted macrophage infiltration and activation and inhibited the expression of inflammatory cytokines. Inhibition of Wnt secretion by macrophages also abolished β-catenin activation in tubular epithelium, repressed myofibroblast activation and reduced kidney fibrosis after either obstructive or ischemic injury. Furthermore, conditioned medium from Wls-deficient BMDMs exhibited less potency to stimulate fibroblast proliferation and activation, compared to the controls. These results underscore an indispensable role of macrophage-derived Wnts in promoting renal inflammation, f
L12:Macrophages are a heterogenous population of tissue-resident cells. They often possess phagocytic ability by cleaning dead cells and debris and produce various cytokines, chemokines and other soluble factors  11 - 13 . They are originated from progenitor mononuclear phagocyte system within bone marrow and migrated into tissues. Upon activation, the tissue-resident macrophages are polarized to classically activated M1 subtype macrophages, which could switch to alternatively activated M2 subtype macrophages along with disease progression. Both subtypes of macrophages could secret pathogenic chemokines and cytokines, such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) in the M1 and IL-10, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β1) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) in the M2, which mediate proinflammatory and profibrotic effects in kidney diseases  14 - 16 . Earlier studies have shown that Wnt7b is produced by macrophages to stimulate tubular repair and regeneration after acute kidney injury (AKI)  17 . However, whether Wnt ligands produced by macrophages play a role in the pathogenesis of CKD is poorly understood.
L19:To validate the role of Wnts in macrophage activation, we isolated and cultured primary macrophages from bone marrow (BM) by using a defined differentiation protocol. As shown in Figure  2 A, the purity of BM-derived macrophages (BMDMs) was confirmed by immunofluorescence staining for F4/80 protein. We then assessed the expressions of Wnts mRNA in different polarized macrophages induced by interferon-γ and lipopolysaccharides (IFN-γ/LPS) or IL-4, respectively. As shown in Figure  2 B, multiple Wnt ligands such as Wnt1, Wnt2, Wnt3a, Wnt4, Wnt5a, Wnt6a, Wnt7a and Wnt9b were induced after BMDMs were polarized to M1 phenotype triggered by IFN-γ/LPS. Similarly, when BMDMs were polarized to M2 phenotype by IL-4, the mRNA levels of those Wnt ligands were upregulated as well (Figure  2 C), whereas the mRNA of Wnt2b, Wnt7b, Wnt8a, Wnt8b, Wnt9a and Wnt16 was undetectable in the BMDMs after either IFN-γ/LPS or IL-4 treatment. As shown in Figure  2 B and C, Wnt6a was mostly upregulated in M1 macrophages, while Wnt3a was highly induced by M2 subtype. To further assess the role of Wnts in macrophage polarization, we treated quiescent macrophages with a mixture of recombinant Wnt proteins (Wnt1 and Wnt3a). As shown in Figure  2 D-F, Wnt proteins induced M1 polarization as shown by an upregulation of CD86 and TNF-α proteins. Similarly, Wnts also induced the mRNA expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), IL-1β and CD86 by qRT-PCR. However, Wnts appeared to have a stronger role in mediating M2 than M1 polarization and induced substantially high levels of MR and arginase 1 pro
L36:Macrophages are a subset of mononuclear phagocytic cells which originate from bone marrow to be tissue-resident, and they play pivotal role in tissue homeostasis and immune surveillance. Upon stimulation by tissue injury, macrophages are activated and polarized, and they then secret a host of proinflammatory and profibrotic cytokines and produce ECM components and other injurious molecules  12 ,  13 . As such, they are not the bystander but one of the important players in the pathogenesis of human diseases including CKD  27 ,  28 . In this study, we demonstrate that macrophage activation and polarization are associated with the simultaneous induction of multiple Wnt ligands. Furthermore, Wnt induction and subsequent secretion are obligatory for macrophage activation and polarization. We further show that conditional blockade of Wnt secretion in a myeloid-specific fashion in Lyz2-Wls-/- mice reduces macrophage activation and infiltration, inhibits myofibroblast activation and matrix production, and mitigates renal fibrotic lesions. These studies provide unambiguous evidence for a critical role of macrophage-derived Wnts in renal inflammation and fibrosis after kidney injury. Our findings for the first time illustrate that macrophages are one of the major sources of Wnt ligands in the injured kidney that promote renal fibrosis and CKD progression.
L53:Bone marrow derived macrophage (BMDM) preparation and polarization
L54:Bone marrow cells were isolated from the tibia and femur of C57BL/6 mice. For their differentiation into BMDM, the extracted cells were incubated for 7 days in Petri dishes with 10% L929 conditioned media (source of M-CSF), 10% FBS and 1% penicillin/streptomycin (Sigma) in Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Media (DMEM). After 7 days, BMDMs were seeded into six-well cell culture plates. For M1 phenotype induction, BMDMs were treated with LPS (5 ng/ml) (Sigma) and IFN-γ (20 ng/ml) (PeproTech, China) for 24 h. For M2 phenotype induction, BMDMs were treated with IL-4 (20 ng/ml) (PeproTech, China) for 24 h.
L66:Figure 2 Wnt upregulation is associated with macrophages polarization and activation  in vitro .  ( A ) Characterization of the isolated bone marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM). Immunofluorescence staining for F4/80 showed the purity of cultured BMDMs. Scale bar, 25 µm. ( B ) BMDMs were induced to M1 polarization using of IFN-γ and LPS, and the expressions of various Wnts were detected by qRT-PCR. ( C ) BMDMs were induced to M2 polarization by IL-4, and the expressions of various Wnts were detected by qRT-PCR. ( D ) Western blot analyses showed that Wnts mixture induced M1 polarization by upregulating CD86 and TNF-α. ( E - F ) Quantitative data of CD86 and TNF-α in different groups as indicated. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3). ( G - I ) qRT-PCR showed that Wnts induced the mRNA expression of M1 polarization markers such as iNOS, IL-1β and CD86. ( J ) Western blotting showed that Wnts induced M2 polarization markers mannose receptor (MR) and arginase-1. ( K ,  L ) Quantitative data of MR and arginase 1 proteins. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3). ( M ,  N ) qRT-PCR showed that Wnts induced the mRNA expression of MR and TGF-β1. ( O ) Western blotting showed that Wnts induced fibrosis-related proteins such as fibronectin, collagen I and α-SMA in BMDMs. ( P ) Quantitative data of fibronectin (FN), collagen I (Col I) and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) proteins. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3). ( Q ) qRT-PCR showed that Wnts induced the mRNA expression of FN, Col I and α-SMA. * P  < 0.05 versus controls (n=3).
[34ms]
