L1:Macrophages (Mϕ) are an extremely heterogeneous and rapidly adapting set of innate immune cells that are scattered throughout all tissues in humans from mid-gestation onwards. Their original definition as key players in phagocytosis and defense against pathogens is too restrictive nowadays, as Mϕ are central to tissue homeostasis, repair, and complex immune regulations involving adaptive immunity. The Mϕ exhibit different ontogenies, originating from either embryonic progenitors or bone marrow, and their fate is shaped by tissue-specific microenvironments, which determine their adaptive phenotypes. This results in functional flexibility, exemplified by their ability to polarize into pro- (M1) or anti- (M2) inflammatory states in response to environmental cues. Such a dynamic process is critical for resolving infections, repairing tissue, and maintaining immune balance. Dysregulated Mϕ polarization is indeed implicated in various pathologies, including chronic inflammation, cancer, and fibrosis. Despite their importance, the study of tissue-resident Mϕ is still limited by technical challenges related to their isolation, maintenance, and donor variability. As an alternative, monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) represent an easier in vitro system to model human Mϕ biology under controlled conditions. However, MDMs differ from tissue-resident Mϕ in their developmental origin and functional specialization. This review outlines the key principles and limitations of MDM-based models, discusses commonly used differentiation protocols, and proposes methodological strategies to en
L3:During organogenesis, Mϕ can originate either from embryonic yolk sac or fetal liver precursors, establishing self-maintaining resident populations in adult tissues, such as microglia in the central nervous system, Kupffer cells in the liver, and alveolar macrophages in the lungs (1, 2). Resident Mϕ support tissue homeostasis by clearing apoptotic cells and debris, as well as performing specialized organ-specific functions. For example, splenic red pulp macrophages (RPMs) are critical for heme and iron recycling, thereby maintaining systemic iron homeostasis and supporting efficient erythrocyte turnover (6). After birth, bone marrow-derived monocytes replenish Mϕ in high-turnover tissues like the gut, and they are also recruited to the site of injury, infection, and inflammation, where they contribute to tissue repair, fibrosis, and angiogenesis (7). Thus, in every tissue, Mϕ populations consist of both embryonic-derived residents and infiltrating monocytes, leading to significant phenotypic diversity based on their origin and environmental cues.
L4:Mϕ can be broadly categorized into two main types based on their ontogeny: tissue-resident macrophages (TRMs), which are established during embryogenesis, and monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs), which originate from circulating bone marrow–derived monocytes. Embryonic-derived TRMs, such as microglia in the brain and Kupffer cells in the liver, are typically long-lived, self-renewing, and highly specialized to meet the structural and functional demands of their respective tissue niches. In contrast, MDMs are continuously replenished from the bone marrow, particularly in high-turnover tissues such as the gut, and are rapidly recruited in response to infection, inflammation, or injury. Upon tissue entry, monocytes undergo differentiation and polarization in response to local environmental cues, including extracellular matrix components and cytokines secreted by resident cells. For example, the successful engraftment and identity acquisition of monocyte-derived cells in the liver requires interactions with hepatocytes, endothelial cells, and hepatic stellate cells, in conjunction with signals such as TGF-β and desmosterol (8, 9).
L6:However, there are no definitive markers currently that reliably distinguish embryonic-derived TRMs from bone marrow–derived MDMs in human tissues, posing a major challenge for dissecting macrophage ontogeny in both health and disease (10).
L9:These reductionist systems, in which macrophages are differentiated with colony-stimulating factors (e.g., M-CSF or GM-CSF) and subsequently activated with defined stimuli such as IFN-γ (for M1) or IL-4 (for M2), offer controlled and reproducible conditions that facilitate the dissection of molecular mechanisms underlying macrophage differentiation, activation, and polarization (29).
L16:Given these challenges, monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) have emerged as an accessible and widely used alternative for studying macrophage biology in vitro. MDMs can be obtained from peripheral blood monocytes, which are readily accessible from both healthy donors and patients through minimally invasive procedures (48–50). These cells can be differentiated into Mϕ under controlled culture conditions using well-established protocols involving growth factors such as macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) (51). By exposing MDMs to specific cytokines or microbial components, it is possible to drive their polarization toward pro- (M1-like) or anti- (M2-like) inflammatory phenotypes, allowing the study of Mϕ activation, cytokine production, and functional responses (52).
L19:Figure 1: Macrophage origin and practical considerations for in vitro MDM generation. (Top) Schematic representation of macrophage ontogeny in humans, highlighting TRMs derived from embryonic progenitors, bone marrow–derived monocytes (BMDMs) and MDMs. Advantages and limitations of using TRMs, MDMs, and BMDMs in research applications are summarized. A schematic overview of human macrophage ontogeny, illustrating the origins of TRMs from embryonic progenitors, as well as bone marrow–derived monocytes (BMDMs) and MDMs, is presented. The main advantages and limitations of using these different macrophage sources in experimental settings are outlined to clearly understand biological relevance as well as technical feasibility. (Bottom) Step-by-step representation of the in vitro protocols for generating human MDMs. The process includes isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), enrichment of monocytes through plastic adhesion, negative selection, or positive selection, followed by macrophage differentiation using specific cytokine cocktails and defined incubation times. For each step, practical pros and cons are provided.
L28:Most commonly, monocytes are differentiated over 7 days with M-CSF (Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor) or GM-CSF (Granulocyte Macrophage-Colony Stimulating Factor) to produce naïve (M0) MDMs. M-CSF is constitutively present in serum and it is indispensable to drive TRMs and MDMs survival, proliferation and differentiation of myeloid progenitors into Mϕ (67–69). Under physiological conditions, M-CSF availability is tightly regulated through CSF-1 receptor (CSF-1R)-mediated endocytosis, establishing a feedback mechanism that regulates Mϕ proliferation according to the abundance of mature cells (70). Conversely, GM-CSF, found mostly at the sites of tissue inflammation, promotes a more activated Mϕ phenotype, characterized by strong antigen-presenting activity in response to pathogenic stimuli, and may also drive differentiation toward dendritic cells (DCs) (71). Accordingly, M-CSF- and GM-CSF-derived Mϕ exhibit different and unique transcriptional profiles (72–77).
L29:Naïve (M0) macrophages can then be polarized into M1 and/or M2 Mϕ using IFN-y and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (for M1) or IL-4 and IL-13 (for M2), among others, depending on the desired phenotype (e.g., M2a, M2b, M2c). However, there is substantial variability in polarization protocols across studies, including differences in cytokine concentrations, timing of stimulation, and duration of exposure (Table 1). For instance, M0 MDMs can be differentiated from monocytes using M-CSF or GM-CSF, with cytokine concentrations ranging from 5 to 100 ng/ml and incubation periods of approximately 6–7 days (78–82), as shorter time spans (<5 days) often yield cells with incomplete maturation (83). Notably, high doses of M-CSF can impair myeloid differentiation, promoting a shift toward a dendritic cell-like phenotype (84). Additionally, M-CSF stimulation can drive morphological differentiation into larger, macrophage-like cells with altered inflammatory potential (85). In general, MDMs induced by these factors display distinct phenotypes and functions: cells induced by GM-CSF actively participate in antigen presentation and produce inflammatory mediators, such as IL-12, IL-23 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α (86), while M-CSF-induced cells are mostly involved in scavenging and phagocytosis and release anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (87).
L35:Importantly, MDMs lack long-term exposure to the complex microenvironmental cues present in the tissues that shape tissue-resident Mϕ identity in vivo. These cues include cytokine gradients, cellular interactions, and metabolic conditions specific to tissues such as the lung, liver, or gut (99). As a result, MDMs often fail to fully recapitulate the phenotypic and functional heterogeneity observed among TRM subsets across different tissues. To address these limitations, differentiation protocols incorporating specific cytokines and growth factors have been developed to guide MDMs toward specialized phenotypes that more closely resemble TRMs or macrophages found in particular pathological contexts. For instance, alveolar-like Mϕ, which are critical for lung homeostasis and host defense, can be generated using a combination of GM-CSF, TGF-β, and IL-10, supplemented with natural bovine surfactant. This approach mimics the pulmonary microenvironment, where GM-CSF drives alveolar Mϕ differentiation, TGF-β supports tissue adaptation, and IL-10 enhances their immunoregulatory properties. The resulting cells demonstrate hallmark features of resident alveolar macrophages, including high phagocytic capacity, adaptations in lipid metabolism, and a balanced inflammatory response. These properties make them particularly valuable for modelling respiratory infections, pulmonary inflammation, and lung-specific immune responses (100).
L36:Similarly, tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-like phenotypes can be induced by exposing MDMs to a cytokine cocktail containing IL-4, IL-10, M-CSF, and tumor-conditioned media, an approach that simulates the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. IL-4 and M-CSF promote an M2-like phenotype characterized by tissue remodeling and immunosuppression, while IL-10 further enhances their anti-inflammatory properties. The inclusion of tumor-conditioned media further skews Mϕ toward a pro-tumoral phenotype, resembling TAMs in the tumor microenvironment. These cells typically exhibit high expression of typical anti-inflammatory markers (i.e., CD163 and CD206), increased secretion of immunosuppressive cytokines like TGF-β, and enhanced angiogenic and matrix-remodeling abilities. TAM-like MDMs are particularly useful for studying tumor-immune interactions, investigating immune evasion mechanisms, and exploring therapeutic strategies targeting the tumor microenvironment (101–106). However, despite these advances, it remains debated how faithfully MDM-derived models can reliably reproduce TRM identities. Recent work by Elchaninov et al. demonstrated that attempts to replicate the hepatic niche using liver-conditioned media failed to induce MDMs to fully adopt the phenotype of Kupffer cells—the resident macrophages of the liver. This highlights the critical role of ontogeny and long-term niche-specific imprinting in shaping TRM identity, which cannot be fully replicated through cytokine supplementation alone (107).
L39:- Confluency: One critical factor that influences Mϕ differentiation is cell confluency. The density at which monocytes are plated plays a key role in determining their viability, differentiation efficiency, and polarization outcomes. Macrophages strongly rely on cell-to-cell interaction and paracrine signals. Under low-density conditions (i.e., below 3x105 cells/ml), monocytes may remain undifferentiated or even undergo apoptosis instead of successfully differentiating. On the other hand, high-density cultures (> 1x106 cells/ml) can result in Mϕ fusion and multinucleated giant cell formation, particularly when M-CSF is used, or when the cells are kept in culture for a long time. Importantly, while low-density culture can lead to unwanted differentiation toward an M1 profile, over-confluency can instead promote an M2-like polarization bias, as cell-to-cell contact increases IL-10 and TGF-β secretion. However, overcrowded cultures can lead to nutrient depletion and waste accumulation over time, impairing macrophage functionality and inducing stress responses. The majority of the published studies use a cell density between 0.5×106 to 1×106 cells/ml (79, 80, 108, 109), as this range optimally balances differentiation efficiency, viability, and functional polarization while minimizing apoptosis at lower densities and excessive fusion at higher densities.
L42:- Cytokines degradation: The differentiation of MDMs strongly relies on the use of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, which must remain stable and biologically active throughout the differentiation process. However, cytokine integrity can be easily compromised by degradation (i.e., M-CSF and GM-CSF), improper storage, repeated freeze-thaw cycles (i.e., IL-4, IL-13, and IFN-γ), and prolonged incubation at suboptimal temperatures, all of which may lead to inconsistent differentiation outcomes and experimental variability (112). To preserve cytokine activity and ensure consistent MDMs differentiation, cytokines should be stored in single-use aliquots at 2-8 °C up to four weeks, at -20 °C for up to 6 months, or -80 °C for long-term storage, to prevent repeated freeze-thaw cycles. In general, most cytokines are stable for up to three freeze–thaw cycles (113). These proteins should be reconstituted in a stabilizing buffer (e.g., 0.1% BSA in PBS) to enhance stability, and the prolonged incubation time at room temperature should be avoided. Moreover, the culture media should be replenished every 2/3 days with freshly resuspended cytokines for long differentiation protocols, to maintain a stable cytokine concentration (99).
L51:Ex vivo, MDMs stimulated with M-CSF are referred to as non-polarized or naïve Mϕ (M0). While these cells possess basic phagocytic activity and the ability to detect pathogens, they require further polarization signals to acquire the full spectrum of specialized macrophage functions, whether pro-(M1) or anti- (M2) inflammatory (119). Phenotypically, M0 Mϕ can be characterized by a balanced expression of both M1- and M2-associated surface markers, with neither subset dominating. Such an intermediate phenotype represents an intrinsic Mϕ baseline readiness to shift toward either M1 or M2 polarization state upon specific stimulation (Figure 1).
L65:Metabolic modulation during MDM polarization can significantly alter the phenotypic and functional outcomes of these cells. For example, inhibition of glycolysis using 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG) or dichloroacetate (DCA) during M2 polarization has been shown to alter their metabolic balance, leading to a shift in their cytokine production profile (132). Specifically, glycolysis inhibition reduces IL-10 secretion, a key anti-inflammatory cytokine associated with M2 function; while simultaneously increasing the production of IL-6, a cytokine commonly linked to inflammatory responses. Moreover, glycolysis inhibition affects the transcriptional landscape of M2 MDMs, altering the expression of key genes involved in their function. This includes changes in the colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF1), which regulates Mϕ survival and differentiation, in the matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9), involved in extracellular matrix remodeling, and in the vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), a key mediator of angiogenesis. These alterations suggest that metabolic shifts can influence not only cytokine production but also tissue remodeling and pro-angiogenic functions of M2 cells. Despite these strong metabolic changes, M2 MDMs differentiated in the presence of glycolysis inhibitors retain a degree of functional plasticity. Upon exposure to appropriate stimuli, they can still produce IL-10, underscoring the dynamic and adaptable nature of macrophage metabolism (132).
L108:TRMs have also been recently differentiated in vitro from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) obtained from stromal cells or embryonic stem cells, providing a promising complementary approach to MDM-based models (153). Successful examples include the generation of iPSC-derived microglia through cocktails of M-CSF, IL-34, TGF-β, CD200, and CX3CL1, which displayed high transcriptomic similarity to primary microglia and faithfully recapitulated disease-relevant phenotypes, such as TREM2-related deficits in phagocytosis (154, 155). Similar approaches have been applied to model pulmonary alveolar proteinosis and Gaucher disease (156), as well as to generate macrophages carrying engineered mutations using CRISPR/Cas9 to dissect the role of genes such as ABCA1 or LIPA (lipase A) in lipid metabolism and inflammation (157). These findings highlight the potential of iPSDMs to overcome some of the limitations of MDMs, such as the restricted ability to acquire stable tissue-resident identities and the difficulties in introducing targeted mutations into their genomes (158).
L113:1  LocatiM CurtaleG MantovaniA .  Diversity, mechanisms, and significance of macrophage plasticity. Annu Rev Pathology: Mech Disease. (2020) 15:123–47. doi: 10.1146/annurev-pathmechdis-012418-012718, PMID:  31530089 PMC7176483 2  ChenS SaeedAFUH LiuQ JiangQ XuH XiaoGG  .  Macrophages in immunoregulation and therapeutics. Signal Transduct Target Ther. (2023) 8. doi: 10.1038/s41392-023-01452-1, PMID:  37211559 PMC10200802 3  Prame KumarK NichollsAJ WongCHY .  Partners in crime: neutrophils and monocytes/macrophages in inflammation and disease. Cell Tissue Res. (2018) 371. doi: 10.1007/s00441-017-2753-2, PMID:  29387942 PMC5820413 4  BiswasSK MantovaniA .  Macrophage plasticity and interaction with lymphocyte subsets: Cancer as a paradigm. Nat Immunol. (2010) 11. doi: 10.1038/ni.1937, PMID:  20856220 5  GuerrieroJL .  Macrophages: their untold story in T cell activation and function. Int Rev Cell Mol Biol. (2019) 342:73–93. doi: 10.1016/bs.ircmb.2018.07.001, PMID:  30635094 6  KohyamaM IseW EdelsonBT WilkerPR HildnerK MejiaC  .  Role for Spi-C in the development of red pulp macrophages and splenic iron homeostasis. Nature. (2009) 457:318–21. doi: 10.1038/NATURE07472, PMID:  19037245 PMC2756102 7  JakubzickCV RandolphGJ HensonPM .  Monocyte differentiation and antigen-presenting functions. Nat Rev Immunol. (2017) 17. doi: 10.1038/nri.2017.28, PMID:  28436425 8  BonnardelJ T'JonckW GaublommeD BrowaeysR ScottCL MartensL  .  Stellate cells, hepatocytes, and endothelial cells imprint the kupffer cell identity on monocytes colonizing the liver macrophage niche. Immunity. (2019)
[47ms]
