L1:HIF-1 regulates mitochondrial function in bone marrow-derived macrophages but not in tissue-resident alveolar macrophages
L7:HIF-1α plays a critical role in shaping macrophage phenotype and effector function. We have previously shown that tissue-resident alveolar macrophages (TR-AMs) have extremely low glycolytic capacity at steady-state but can shift toward glycolysis under hypoxic conditions. Here, we generated mice with tamoxifen-inducible myeloid lineage cell specific deletion of  Hif1a  ( Hif1a fl/fl : LysM-CreERT2 +/− ) and from these mice, we isolated TR-AMs and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) in which  Hif1a  is deleted. We show that TR-AM HIF-1α is required for the glycolytic shift under prolyl hydroxylase inhibition but is dispensable at steady-state for inflammatory effector function. In contrast, HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs led to diminished glycolytic capacity at steady-state and reduced inflammatory capacity, but higher mitochondrial function. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed enhanced c-Myc transcriptional activity in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs, and upregulation of gene pathways related to ribosomal biogenesis and cellular proliferation. We conclude that HIF-1α regulates mitochondrial function in BMDMs but not in TR-AMs. The findings highlight the heterogeneity of HIF-1α function in distinct macrophage populations and provide new insight into how HIF-1α regulates gene expression, inflammation, and metabolism in different types of macrophages.
L9:Alveolar macrophage; Bone marrow-derived macrophage; HIF-1α; Metabolism; Mitochondria; Inflammation; Cell biology; Energy metabolism; Metabolomics
L11:It is well-established that glycolytic metabolism plays a central role in regulating immune cell effector function 1 – 5 . As the field of immunometabolism grew, it has become more apparent that tissue-specific conditions lead to unique metabolic characteristics that often fall outside of the conventional framework ascribed to broader immune cell populations 6 – 8 . For instance, while bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) rely predominantly on glycolysis for proinflammatory processes, we have found glycolysis to be dispensable for inflammation in tissue-resident alveolar macrophages (TR-AMs) 9 . It is likely that the unique environment of the alveolar lumen dictates the metabolic needs of TR-AMs 10 . Glucose concentrations within the airway are approximately one-tenth of those observed in the blood, and oxygen levels are the highest of any compartment within the human body making oxidative phosphorylation a more efficient means of metabolism for TR-AMs 6 , 11 . While TR-AMs do not conduct glycolysis under steady-state conditions, they can be pushed toward a glycolytic phenotype under severe hypoxia such as in cases of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) where lung oxygenation is impaired 12 . Further highlighting the role of the alveolar niche in dictating cellular phenotype, BMDMs, peritoneal macrophages, and macrophage precursors transplanted into the airway acquire phenotypical characteristics associated with TR-AM identity 8 , 13 . Together, these findings show that TR-AMs reside in a unique environment that negates the need for glycolytic metabolism under
L57:We observed no changes in TR-AM inflammatory capabilities upon HIF-1α deletion. ETC inhibition greatly reduces cytokine production in TR-AMs, but these reductions can be overcome through pretreatment with hypoxia 12 . These findings are aligned with our data showing that unlike BMDMS, LPS treatment does not result in HIF-1α translocation to the nucleus in TR-AMs. Zhu and colleagues have shown that Poly (I: C) or influenza infection upregulate HIF-1α in TR-AMs, but we were not able to replicate these results 48 , 49 . We find that only hypoxia or pharmacological inhibition of prolyl hydroxylases induces HIF-1α in TR-AMs. One explanation for the observed differences is that Zhu and colleagues cultured TR-AMs in the presence of GM-CSF. GM-CSF is important to TR-AM function in vivo, but it induces proliferation of TR-AMs in culture 50 , 51 . Within the alveolus, epithelial-derived soluble mediators and direct interactions with epithelial cells function to prevent widespread TR-AM proliferation in the presence of physiological levels of GM-CSF 52 . Thus, it may be that previous observations of HIF-1α induction in TR-AMs are related to proliferation as opposed to inflammatory effector function.
L58:While HIF-1α deletion in BMDMs depressed proinflammatory effector function, RNA-seq Gene Ontology analysis showed upregulation in ribosomal biogenesis, rRNA metabolic processes, and noncoding RNA processing gene pathways in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs. Others have recently observed upregulation of ribosomal biogenesis genes in tumor-associated macrophages, but the mechanism underlying this phenomenon remains unclear 53 . Increased expression of these gene pathways has been associated with increased proliferation and cell growth, and c-Myc has been identified as a critical regulator of these processes 24 . c-Myc and HIF-1α can work in concert or opposition to augment cellular metabolism, protein synthesis, cell growth, and proliferation 26 . While it may seem paradoxical,  Hif1a −/−  tumors grow faster and become more invasive in the presence of adequate oxygen, but under hypoxia, HIF-1α can displace c-Myc from DNA to induce cell cycle arrest 54 , 55 . In a similar vein, BMDMs restimulated with MCSF following a period of starvation upregulate c-Myc and shift toward a proliferative phenotype reliant on both glycolysis and mitochondrial metabolism. LPS treatment downregulates c-Myc, upregulates HIF-1α, and supports a glycolysis dominant metabolism in BMDMs 56 . This suggests that BMDMs proinflammatory effector function suppresses proliferation and shifts the cell from Myc-dependent to HIF-1α-dependent metabolism. We find the Myc regulon to be the most upregulated transcriptional network in  Hif1a −/−  BMDMs compared to controls. This suggests that c-Myc serves a more dominant role i
L61:We would like to point out that utilizing an inducible myeloid lineage cell specific HIF-1α deletion system to delete HIF-1α from cells is not without controversy. This system may not delete HIF-1α in 100% of cells upon tamoxifen exposure. Likewise,  Lyz2CreERT2  allele results in  Lyz2  heterozygosity in our cells. However, we show that lysozyme protein expression is largely maintained in our cells (Supplementary Fig. S12). Based on our metabolic findings and the existing literature, we believe that the observed phenotype in our knockout macrophages is a result of HIF-1α deletion. While BMDMs derived in CSF-1 may not perfectly recapitulate the phenotype of recruited macrophages, we have previously shown that BMDMs and recruited macrophages have similar metabolic phenotypes 9 , 12 . Furthermore, while hypoxia is a more physiological activator of HIF-1α, we chose to use a chemical prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor in attempt to induce HIF-1α while eliminating the off-target cellular effects associated with low oxygen levels particularly the direct effect of hypoxia on the mitochondria. Our group and others have shown that HIF-independent hypoxic responses have significant impacts on inflammation and metabolic pathways outside of canonical HIF-1α signaling 12 , 70 .
L66:We used well-accepted methods to isolate and culture both macrophage populations as we have previously described 9 , 12 , 42 , 73 . These methods yield TRAMs at a purity greater than 95%. BMDMs are assumed to be nearly 100% pure as they are bone marrow cells differentiated into macrophages over seven days with M-CSF. To isolate TR-AMs, we euthanized 6–8 week old male mice and performed standard bronchoalveolar lavage via intratracheal instillation of PBS with 0.5 mM EDTA. Following isolation, TR-AMs were counted, plated in RPMI 1640 (ThermoFisher, Cat# 11875119) supplemented with 10% FBS (Gemini, Cat# 100–106) and 1% penicillin-streptomycin (Gemini, Cat# 400 − 109), and allowed to adhere to tissue culture plates for one hour prior to experimentation. BMDMs were generated by isolating bone marrow cells from the femur and tibia bones of 6–8 week old  Hif1a −/−  and  Hif1a +/+  mice. Bone marrow cells were differentiated into BMDMs on petri dishes using 40 ng/mL recombinant M-CSF (BioLegend, Cat# 576406) and 1 µg/ml 4-Hydroxytamoxifen (Millipore Sigma, Cat# SML1666) in the same media formulation as TR-AMs. On day seven, after successful differentiation and gene deletion, BMDMs were replated and allowed to adhere to tissue culture plates for two hours prior to experimentation. After adherence, cells were washed and placed with fresh media under experimental conditions. FG-4592, a prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor, was used at a concentration of 25µM for HIF-1α stabilization. Lyophilized FG-4592 was dissolved in DMSO and diluted 1:2500 in media to achieve a final concentration of
[47ms]
