L9:Mycobacterium tuberculosis  (MTB) ESX-1, a type VII secretion system, is a key virulence determinant contributing to MTB’s survival within lung mononuclear phagocytes (MNPs), but its effect on MNP recruitment and differentiation remains unknown. Here, using multiple single-cell RNA sequencing techniques, we studied the role of ESX-1 in MNP heterogeneity and response in mice and murine bone marrow–derived macrophages (BMDM). We found that ESX-1 is required for MTB to recruit diverse MNP subsets with high MTB burden. Further, MTB induces a transcriptional signature of immune evasion in lung macrophages and BMDM in an ESX-1–dependent manner. Spatial transcriptomics revealed an up-regulation of permissive features within MTB lesions, where monocyte-derived macrophages concentrate near MTB-infected cells. Together, our findings suggest that MTB ESX-1 facilitates the recruitment and differentiation of MNPs, which MTB can infect and manipulate for survival. Our dataset across various models and methods could contribute to the broader understanding of recruited cell heterogeneity during MTB lung infection.
L25:Monocytes, macrophages, and DCs from both SmartSeq2 experiments were subset from the larger atlas to standardize the method, sequencing depth, and further factors that cannot be compensated computationally (fig. S3E). Cells were reclustered and noted to have similar distributions as the combined cell atlas. With this method, five clusters were identified: moDerived macrophages, transitioning monocytes, AMs, moDerived cells with elevated Notch signaling and underrepresentation of canonical markers (“Notch-High”), and a smaller DC population. Nomenclature was again confirmed by transcriptional canonical markers and previously defined surface markers ( Fig. 2C  and fig. S4, A and B) ( 12 ). For instance, the denotation transitioning monocyte was given due to a high expression of monocyte markers (e.g.,  Cx3cr1 ,  Sell ,  Spn ,  Plac8 , and  Nr4a1 ) with a further signature of  C1q ,  Cd68 ,  Csf1r , and  Lyz2  (fig. S4A). Given experimental methods to exclude intravascular monocytes combined with transcriptional similarities, those with high Ly6c surface expression are also expected to be recently recruited or patrolling monocytes ( 31 ). Conversely, moDerived macrophages demonstrated significantly lower expression of monocyte markers while retaining  Ly6c2 ,  Cd14 , major histocompatibility complex II (MHC II), and  C1q  markers.
L37:Bone marrow–derived macrophages (BMDMs), derived from bone marrow progenitors and differentiated in vitro, have been used as primary cells to study MTB infection. To compare with transcriptional differences identified in vivo, BMDM derived from healthy C57BL/6 mice were infected for 24 hours with MTB expressing dsRed with or without functional ESX-1 through lack of the entire RD1 operon ( Fig. 2A ); colony-forming unit (CFU) was similar in cells infected with both strains (fig. S5A). Live cells were sorted on dsRed expression, multiplexed using lipid-tagged indices (MULTI-seq), and single-cell transcriptomic libraries were produced using 10X chemistry ( Fig. 5A  and fig. S5B) ( 45 ).
L67:BMDM were derived from bone marrow cells cultured in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (Gibco, 11965092), 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (HI-FBS) and recombinant murine macrophage colony-stimulating factor (20 ng/ml; PeproTech) as described elsewhere ( 6 ). Before infection, cells were washed twice with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Bacterial strains were grown without tween and stored as previously described ( 72 ). Stock was thawed, and any remaining clumps were removed by filtering through a 5-mm filter. Cells were bathed in infection media at a multiplicity of infection of 1 for 4 hours, and washed, and media were replaced. Twenty-four hours after infection, live cells were lifted gently, washed, and stained by Zombie Aqua Fixable Viability Dye (BioLegend, 423101) before flow sorting.
L1908:|Macrophage<br>Differentiation|_Adgre1, Csf1r, H2-Ab1, H2-Aa, Cd68, Lyz2, Itgam, Mertk, C1qa, C1qb,_<br>_C1qc_|
L2083:**Differential gene expression analysis of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM).** BMDM were
[50ms]
