L1:Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles alleviate diabetes-exacerbated atherosclerosis via AMPK/mTOR pathway-mediated autophagy-related macrophage polarization
L7:Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (BMSC-EVs) are widely used for therapeutic purposes in preclinical studies. However, their utility in treating diabetes-associated atherosclerosis remains largely unexplored. Here, we aimed to characterize BMSC-EV-mediated regulation of autophagy and macrophage polarization.
L15:Extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells may mitigate diabetes-aggravated atherosclerosis by regulating AMPK/mTOR-mediated autophagy-related macrophage polarization and inhibiting macrophage proliferation, migration, foam cell formation, and cholesterol transport.
L19:Diabetes; Atherosclerosis; Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles; Autophagy; Macrophage polarization; AMPK/mTOR pathway
L29:Primary BMSCs were isolated from C57BL/6J mice. Mice, all male and aged 3–4 weeks, were obtained from Beijing HFK Bio-technology Co., Ltd. (Beijing, China) (Permission No. SCXK(Jing) 2019-0008). Mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation and were then immersed in 75% ethanol for 5 min for disinfection. Femurs and tibias were aseptically isolated and placed in pre-cooled phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; Cytiva, SH30256) containing 1% penicillin–streptomycin (P–S) suspension (Gibco, 15140122). Both ends of the femurs and tibias were excised to explore the medullary cavities. Cavities were flushed with Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium/Nutrient Mixture F-12 (DMEM/F-12; Gibco, 11320033) supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS) (Hyclone, SH30406.05) and 1% P/S using a 1 mL, 25G syringe. Flushed bone marrow was collected, homogenized with pipettes, and filtered through a 75-μm cell strainer to obtain single-cell suspensions. Cellular suspensions were carefully layered onto Ficoll-Paque PREMIUM (Cytiva, 17544602) at a ratio of 1:3 and centrifuged at 400 g for 5 min at 4 °C. The middle layer was then aspirated, and 5 mL of the above complete culture medium was added to the suspension. This mixture was centrifuged again at 400 g for 5 min at 4 °C. The resulting cell pellet was resuspended and inoculated into a T25 cell culture flask and then incubated at 37 °C with 5% CO 2 . After 24 h, supernatant containing non-adherent cells was aspirated and discarded. A fresh complete medium was then added, and the culture was continued. The medium was changed first after 72 h, and su
L44:Fig. 1 Isolation and Characterization of BMSC-EV.  A  Schematic representation of BMSC-EV isolation from cellular supernatants using a combination of ultrafiltration and ultracentrifugation techniques.  B  TEM image showing the distinctive cup-shaped morphology of the isolated BMSC-EV.  C  NTA depicting the size distribution profile of the BMSC-EV population.  D  Western blots showing the presence of surface protein markers specific to BMSC-EV. Abbreviations: BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; TEM, transmission electron microscope; NTA, nanoparticle tracking analysis
L45:After BMSCs were passaged and expanded, cell culture supernatants were collected. EVs were isolated using ultrafiltration and low-temperature ultracentrifugation (Fig.  1 A). EVs were identified based on their morphologies, particle size distribution, and surface molecule expression using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), and western blots. Fig. 1 Isolation and Characterization of BMSC-EV.  A  Schematic representation of BMSC-EV isolation from cellular supernatants using a combination of ultrafiltration and ultracentrifugation techniques.  B  TEM image showing the distinctive cup-shaped morphology of the isolated BMSC-EV.  C  NTA depicting the size distribution profile of the BMSC-EV population.  D  Western blots showing the presence of surface protein markers specific to BMSC-EV. Abbreviations: BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; TEM, transmission electron microscope; NTA, nanoparticle tracking analysis
L48:Fig. 2 Effects of Different Interventions on Blood Lipid Profiles and Aortic Atherosclerosis in Diabetic ApoE −/−  Mice.  A  Flowchart depicting the establishment of animal models and group dosing.  B–G  After 19 weeks of intervention, blood glucose levels were assessed with a rapid blood glucose meter, and serum insulin and blood lipid profiles were determined via biochemical methods (n = 6).  H  Oil Red O staining illustrates the distribution of atherosclerotic plaques in intact mouse aortas, along with plaque area quantification (n = 3).  I  H&E staining shows the distribution of atherosclerotic plaques in the transvalvular transverse section of the mouse aortic root, alongside quantification of plaque area.  J  Masson staining demonstrates the collagen content and ratio of collagen/plaque area in atherosclerotic plaques in the transverse axial section of the mouse aortic root (n = 6). (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, *  P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: H&E staining, hematoxylin–eosin staining; WT, wild type; OD, ordinary diet; HFD, high-fat diet; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; RAPA, rapamycin; PCSK9i, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor; BMSC, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells
L49:To construct a diabetes-exacerbated atherosclerosis model, STZ was used to induce diabetes in ApoE −/−  mice on an HFD, resulting in diabetic ApoE −/−  mice (Fig.  2 A–C). Blood lipid analysis showed that, compared to non-diabetic ApoE −/−  mice on an HFD, the DA group had significantly increased levels of total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), and LDL ( P  < 0.05) (Fig.  2 D–F). Fig. 2 Effects of Different Interventions on Blood Lipid Profiles and Aortic Atherosclerosis in Diabetic ApoE −/−  Mice.  A  Flowchart depicting the establishment of animal models and group dosing.  B–G  After 19 weeks of intervention, blood glucose levels were assessed with a rapid blood glucose meter, and serum insulin and blood lipid profiles were determined via biochemical methods (n = 6).  H  Oil Red O staining illustrates the distribution of atherosclerotic plaques in intact mouse aortas, along with plaque area quantification (n = 3).  I  H&E staining shows the distribution of atherosclerotic plaques in the transvalvular transverse section of the mouse aortic root, alongside quantification of plaque area.  J  Masson staining demonstrates the collagen content and ratio of collagen/plaque area in atherosclerotic plaques in the transverse axial section of the mouse aortic root (n = 6). (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, *  P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: H&E staining, hematoxylin–eosin staining; WT, wild type; OD, ordinary diet; HFD, high-fat diet; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; RAPA, rapamycin; PCSK9i, proprotein convertase subti
L57:Fig. 3 Effects of BMSC-EVs on HG-ox-LDL-Induced Macrophage Proliferation, Migration, Foam Cell Formation, and Cholesterol Efflux.  A  A co-culture system of BMSC and RAW264.7 cells in Transwell chambers was constructed to evaluate the effect of BMSC-EVs on the formation of RAW264.7 foam cells using Oil Red O staining (n = 3).  B  Transwell migration assays were used to assess the effects of BMSC-EVs on RAW264.7 cell migration.  C  CCK-8 assays were used to evaluate the effects of BMSC-EVs on RAW264.7 cell proliferation (n = 9).  D  Oil Red O staining was used to evaluate the effect of BMSC-EVs on RAW264.7 foam cell formation. (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were performed using one-way ANOVA, *  P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: WT, wild type; OD, ordinary diet; HFD, high-fat diet; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; RAPA, rapamycin; PCSK9i, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor; BMSC, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HG, high glucose; ox-LDL, oxidized low-density lipoprotein; CCK-8, Cell Counting Kit-8; BMSC, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; Baf A1, Bafilomycin A1
L58:To understand the cellular mechanisms underlying BMSC-EVs’ alleviation of diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis, we first established a co-culture system of BMSCs and RAW264.7 cells. Oil Red O staining revealed a significant reduction in the proportion of macrophages forming foam cells in the co-culture group compared to the model group ( P  < 0.05) (Fig.  3 A). The proportion of foam cells significantly increased when cells were treated with the EV secretion inhibitor GW4869 ( P  < 0.05) (Fig.  3 A). Fig. 3 Effects of BMSC-EVs on HG-ox-LDL-Induced Macrophage Proliferation, Migration, Foam Cell Formation, and Cholesterol Efflux.  A  A co-culture system of BMSC and RAW264.7 cells in Transwell chambers was constructed to evaluate the effect of BMSC-EVs on the formation of RAW264.7 foam cells using Oil Red O staining (n = 3).  B  Transwell migration assays were used to assess the effects of BMSC-EVs on RAW264.7 cell migration.  C  CCK-8 assays were used to evaluate the effects of BMSC-EVs on RAW264.7 cell proliferation (n = 9).  D  Oil Red O staining was used to evaluate the effect of BMSC-EVs on RAW264.7 foam cell formation. (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were performed using one-way ANOVA, *  P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: WT, wild type; OD, ordinary diet; HFD, high-fat diet; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; RAPA, rapamycin; PCSK9i, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor; BMSC, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HG, high glucose; ox-LDL, oxidized low-
L61:Fig. 4 BMSC-EV Regulates Autophagy In Vivo.  A  Transmission electron microscopy reveals autophagosomes (red arrows) and autolysosomes (yellow arrows) in mouse arteries, which were used to evaluate autophagy status.  B–D  Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated the effect of BMSC-EVs on the expression of autophagy-related proteins LC3BII and P62 in cells of the mouse aortic root (n = 6). (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, *  P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: WT, wild type; OD, ordinary diet; HFD, high-fat diet; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; RAPA, rapamycin; PCSK9i, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor; BMSC, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; P62, prostacyclin; LC3B, microtubule-associated protein. AOD, Average Optical Density
L62:To further explore BMSC-EVs’ effects on autophagy, we used TEM to evaluate autophagosomes and autophagolysosomes in mouse aortas. Autophagosomes and autophagolysosomes were seen in the visual fields in the DA, OD, RAPA, PCSK9i, BMSC, and BMSC-EV groups. Typical autophagosomes and autophagolysosomes were rarely observed in the HFD and DA groups, suggesting inhibited autophagy. In the RAPA group, in contrast, multiple autophagosomes (Fig.  4 A, red arrow) and autophagolysosomes (Fig.  4 A, yellow arrow) were evident, indicating active autophagy. We also performed immunohistochemical (IHC) staining to assess the expression of autophagy-related proteins LC3B and P62 in mouse aortic root tissue. Compared with the OD group, the DA model group showed a significant increase in P62 expression and a decrease in LC3B II expression ( P  < 0.05). The BMSC and BMSC-EV groups, in contrast, showed reduced P62 but increased LC3B II expression compared to the DA group (both  P  < 0.05). No significant difference was observed between the BMSC and BMSC-EV groups ( P  > 0.05). These findings suggest that BMSC-EV can upregulate autophagy in diabetes-related atherosclerotic tissue, exhibiting effects comparable to those of BMSC (Fig.  4 B–D). Fig. 4 BMSC-EV Regulates Autophagy In Vivo.  A  Transmission electron microscopy reveals autophagosomes (red arrows) and autolysosomes (yellow arrows) in mouse arteries, which were used to evaluate autophagy status.  B–D  Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated the effect of BMSC-EVs on the expression of autophagy-related proteins LC3BII and P62 in cel
L63:Fig. 5 BMSC-EV Regulates Autophagy In Vitro.  A  After transfection of mRFP-GFP-LC3 autophagy double-labeled lentivirus into RAW264.7 cells, laser confocal microscopy was used to assess the effect of BMSC-EV on autophagy flow. (Red dots, autolysosomes; Yellow dots, autophagosomes; *Statistical difference between the sum of red points and yellow points. # Statistical difference in the proportion of red points to the total number of points.)  B  Using a Transwell-based co-culture system of BMSC and RAW264.7 cells, Western blots were used to evaluate the effect of BMSC on macrophage autophagy (n = 3).  C  Western blots showed the effect of BMSC-EV on macrophage autophagy (n = 3). (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, *  P  < 0.05, #  P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; HG, high glucose; ox-LDL, oxidized low-density lipoprotein; Baf A1, Bafilomycin A1; P62, prostacyclin; LC3B, microtubule-associated protein
L64:In vitro, we used the mRFP-GFP-LC3B viral reporter-based autophagy flux detection tool in RAW264.7 cells and then observed and quantified autophagosomes (red dots) and autophagolysosomes (yellow dots). There were significantly fewer autophagosomes and autophagolysosomes in the model group compared to the control group, indicating blocked autophagy flux ( P  < 0.05). In contrast, the number of autophagosomes and autophagolysosomes was significantly increased in the BMSC-EV group compared to the model group, indicating autophagy flux activation ( P  < 0.05) (Fig.  5 A). In the BMSC-EV plus Baf A1 group, cells were predominantly characterized by increased proportions of yellow granular autophagosomes and decreased red autophagy lysosomes compared to the BMSC-EV group. However, the proportion of red autophagy lysosomes in the combined BMSC-EV-Baf A1 group was higher than the proportion in the Baf A1 group alone (all  P  < 0.05). This suggest that Baf A1 partially blocked BMSC-EV-induced activation of autophagy flux (Fig.  5 A). Fig. 5 BMSC-EV Regulates Autophagy In Vitro.  A  After transfection of mRFP-GFP-LC3 autophagy double-labeled lentivirus into RAW264.7 cells, laser confocal microscopy was used to assess the effect of BMSC-EV on autophagy flow. (Red dots, autolysosomes; Yellow dots, autophagosomes; *Statistical difference between the sum of red points and yellow points. # Statistical difference in the proportion of red points to the total number of points.)  B  Using a Transwell-based co-culture system of BMSC and RAW264.7 cells, Western blots were used to evaluate th
L68:Fig. 6 BMSC-EV Modulates Macrophage Polarization Phenotype In Vivo and In Vitro.  A  Immunofluorescence (IF) co-staining illustrates M1 macrophages (CD68 & iNOS positive) within atherosclerotic plaques in the transvalvular section of the mouse aortic root. (Blue, DAPI; Green, CD68; Red, iNOS).  B  IF shows the effects of BMSC-EV on M1 polarization of RAW264.7 macrophages induced by HG combined with ox-LDL. Green fluorescence intensity indicates the expression level of the M1 polarization marker molecule CD86.  C  Western blots showing the effects of BMSC-EV on the relative expression of the M1-type polarization marker molecule iNOS and M2-type polarization marker molecule Arg-1 in RAW264.7 macrophages induced by HG combined with ox-LDL (n = 3). (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, * P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: DAPI, 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; iNOS, inducible nitric oxide synthase; WT, wild type; OD, ordinary diet; HFD, high-fat diet; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; RAPA, Rapamycin; PCSK9i, Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 inhibitor; BMSC, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; Arg-1, Arginase-1; IF, Immunofluorescence
L69:We evaluated the proportion of M1 macrophages in atherosclerotic plaques in mouse aortic tissue using multiplex immunofluorescence (IF) staining. We found cells co-stained green (CD68-positive, macrophage marker) and red (iNOS-positive, M1 macrophage marker) in the ApoE −/−  OD, HFD, and DA groups. The OD, HFD, and DA groups also showed an increasing trend in M1 macrophage numbers, consistent with the severity of atherosclerotic lesions. In contrast, the RAPA, PCSK9, BMSC, and BMSC-EV groups, despite showing obvious aortic root plaques, had very few iNOS-positive cells (Fig.  6 A). Fig. 6 BMSC-EV Modulates Macrophage Polarization Phenotype In Vivo and In Vitro.  A  Immunofluorescence (IF) co-staining illustrates M1 macrophages (CD68 & iNOS positive) within atherosclerotic plaques in the transvalvular section of the mouse aortic root. (Blue, DAPI; Green, CD68; Red, iNOS).  B  IF shows the effects of BMSC-EV on M1 polarization of RAW264.7 macrophages induced by HG combined with ox-LDL. Green fluorescence intensity indicates the expression level of the M1 polarization marker molecule CD86.  C  Western blots showing the effects of BMSC-EV on the relative expression of the M1-type polarization marker molecule iNOS and M2-type polarization marker molecule Arg-1 in RAW264.7 macrophages induced by HG combined with ox-LDL (n = 3). (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, * P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: DAPI, 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; iNOS, inducible nitric oxide synthase; WT, wild type; OD, ordinary diet; HFD, high-fat diet; DA, diab
L72:Fig. 7 BMSC-EV Regulates Macrophage Autophagy and Polarization Phenotype Through the AMPK/mTOR Pathway.  A – G  Western blots showing the relative expression and phosphorylation of AMPK/mTOR in RAW264.7 cells induced by HG and ox-LDL, as well as autophagy and polarization marker molecule expression (n = 5).  H  BMSC-EV alleviates diabetes-aggravated atherosclerosis by modulating autophagy-related macrophage polarization via the AMPK/mTOR pathway (Pairwise comparisons between experimental groups were conducted using one-way ANOVA, *  P  < 0.05). Abbreviations: HG, high glucose; ox-LDL, oxidized low-density lipoprotein; BMSC, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; CC, compound C; p-mTOR, phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin; t-mTOR, total mammalian target of rapamycin; p-AMPK α, phosphorylated adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase α; t-AMPK, total adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase α; iNOS, inducible nitric oxide synthase; Arg-1, Arginase-1; P62, prostacyclin; LC3B, microtubule-associated protein
L73:To understand the mechanism by which BMSC-EVs regulate autophagy and polarization phenotypes RAW264.7 cells, we focused on the AMPK/mTOR pathway, which is known for its role in both autophagy and macrophage polarization. We validated the presence of key molecules in this pathway using western blots. Initially, compared with the untreated group, combination treatment with HG and ox-LDL increased the p-mTOR/t-mTOR ratio, decreased the p-AMPKα/t-AMPKα ratio, elevated iNOS and P62 expression, and reduced Arg-1 and LC3B II/I expression (Blank Control vs. HG+ ox-LDL Control,  P  < 0.05). Subsequently, administration of BMSC-EVs in the induction group decreased the p-mTOR/t-mTOR ratio, increased the p-AMPKα/t-AMPKα ratio, reduced iNOS and P62 expression, and increased Arg-1 and LC3B II/I expression compared with the HG + ox-LDL control group (HG + ox-LDL-BMSC-EV group vs. HG + ox-LDL-Control group,  P  < 0.05). Additionally, the AMPK inhibitor Compound C partially blocked BMSC-EV-mediated effects. Specifically, introducing Compound C after BMSC-EV treatment increased the p-mTOR/t-mTOR ratio and decreased the p-AMPKα/t-AMPKα ratio. These changes were also accompanied by increased P62 expression, as well as decreased Arg-1 and LC3B II/I expression (HG + ox-LDL-BMSC-EV group vs. HG + ox-LDL-BMSC-EV + CC group,  P  < 0.05). Unfortunately, no statistically significant changes in iNOS were observed(HG + ox-LDL-BMSC-EV group vs. HG + ox-LDL-BMSC-EV + CC group, P > 0.05) (Fig.  7 A–G). Fig. 7 BMSC-EV Regulates Macrophage Autophagy and Polarization Phenotype Through the AMPK/mTOR Pathw
L118:26. Lin Y, Liu M, Chen E, Jiang W, Shi W, Wang Z. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells microvesicles stabilize atherosclerotic plaques by inhibiting NLRP3-mediated macrophage pyroptosis. Cell Biol Int. 2021;45(4):820–30. 33325118
L136:Induction and Identification of Adipogenic, Osteogenic, and Chondrogenic Differentiation of Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs)
L198:Supplementary Fig. 1. Isolation, Culture, and Identification of Primary Mouse Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells. A. Schematic representation of the Ficoll-based isolation protocol for BMMSCs using density gradient centrifugation. B. Morphology of mouse BMMSCs observed under a light microscope. C. Assessment of the trilineage differentiation potential of BMMSCs into adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic lineages. Differentiation was confirmed using specific staining protocols: Oil Red O for adipogenesis, Alizarin Red for osteogenesis, and Alician Blue for chondrogenesis. D. Flow cytometry analysis of BMMSC surface markers. Cells were positive for CD44, CD29, and Sca-1, and negative for CD31, CD117, and CD34.
L200:Supplementary Fig. 3. HE staining of mouse liver. Abbreviations: WT, wild type; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; BMMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells.
[126ms]
