L1:Comparative Study of  Mycobacterium bovis  and  Mycobacterium avium  subsp.  paratuberculosis  In Vitro Infection in Bovine Bone Marrow Derived Macrophages: Preliminary Results
L8:Bovine tuberculosis and paratuberculosis are endemic in many areas worldwide. This work aims to study cytokines production and gene expression profiles of bovine macrophages infected with  Mycobacterium bovis  and  Mycobacterium paratuberculosis  subsp.  avium  (MAP) strains to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers. Bovine bone marrow stem cells were differentiated into macrophages and subsequently infected in vitro with different spoligotypes of  M. bovis  and MAP field strains (as single infections and coinfections), using different multiplicity of infection. Supernatant and cell pellets were collected 24 h, 48 h, and one week post-infection. Preliminarily, gene expression on cell pellets of IL-1β, IL-2, INFγ, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, and TNFα was assessed by qRT-PCR one week p.i. Subsequently, IL-1β and IL-6 were measured by ELISA and qRT-PCR to investigated their production retrospectively 24 h and 48 h p.i. A variability in macrophages response related to the concentration of mycobacteria, the coinfection with MAP, and  M. bovis  spoligotypes was identified. An early and constant IL-6 increase was observed in the  M. bovis  infection. A lower increase in IL-1β was also detected at the highest concentration of the two  M. bovis  spoligotypes one week post-infection. IL-6 and IL-1 β production was reduced and differently expressed in the MAP infection. IL-6 appeared to be the earliest cytokines produced by bovine macrophages infected with  M. bovis .
L21:2.2. Bone Marrow Collection and Macrophagic Culture
L22:Bone marrow specimens (10 mL) were collected from the iliac crest of freshly slaughtered animals. Specimens were then poured in EDTA tubes and transferred at 4 °C in isothermal box to the laboratory. Samples were processed within 4–6 h post-collection. A pure macrophage culture was obtained following the protocol published by Trouplin et al., 2013 [ 29 ]. Pluribeads (Pluriselect) kit and flow cytometry were used to confirm the successful and correct isolation of a pure macrophage cell culture. The cell marker used was CD14 and the purity yielded was 94%. Macrophage cultures were finally seeded in 24 well flat bottom plates and monitored daily.
L277: Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophage Production J Vis Exp. 2013 81 e50966 10.3791/50966
[91ms]
