L1:Differentiation of Bone Marrow Monocytes into Alveolar Macrophages-like Cells through Co-culture with Lung Epithelial Cells and Group 2 Innate Lymphoid Cells
L6:During life, the embryonic alveolar macrophage (AM) population undergoes successive waves of depletion and replenishment in response to infectious and inflammatory episodes. While resident AMs are traditionally described as from embryonic origin, their ontogeny following inflammation or infection is much more complex. Indeed, it appears that the contribution of monocytes (MOs) to the AM pool is variable and depends on the type of inflammation, its severity, and the signals released in the microenvironment of the pulmonary niche (peripheral imprinting) and/or in the bone marrow (central imprinting). Deciphering the cellular and molecular mechanisms regulating the differentiation of MOs into AMs remains an area of intense investigation, as this could potentially explain part of the inter-individual susceptibility to respiratory immunopathologies. Here, we detail a relevant ex vivo co-culture model to investigate how lung epithelial cells (ECs) and group 2 lung innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) contribute to the differentiation of recruited MOs into AMs. Interestingly, the presence of lung ILC2s and ECs provides the necessary niche signals to ensure the differentiation of bone marrow MOs into AMs, thus establishing an accessible model to study the underlying mechanisms following different infection or inflammation processes.
L14:The protocol presented here details the optimal settings to recapitulate an alveolar niche ex vivo allowing the differentiation of MOs into AMs. In particular, this protocol describes the experimental conditions for co-culture of epithelial cells (ECs) and bone marrow MOs, with group 2 lung innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) isolated from mouse lung. In the related publication, we showed that bone marrow MOs differentiate in vitro into AM-like cells in the presence of ILC2s and ECs, as evidenced by the expression of genes related to macrophage differentiation and activation ( Csf1, PPARg , and  Il4ra ) ( Loos et al., 2023 ). In addition, we also showed the long-term effect of lung gammaherpesvirus infection on ILC2s and the subsequent consequences on ILC2-mediated differentiation of MOs into AMs. In particular, we highlighted the key role of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) produced by ILC2s in the differentiation of MO-AMs. The main advantage of this protocol is that it reduces the cell types involved in the differentiation of MO-AMs to a number of selected candidates that we can study ex vivo. This approach therefore allows to test the influence of either environmental conditions (such as viruses or pollutants) or defined mediators in a very controlled environment with every other condition being equal. Subsequently, the differentiation of MOs into AM-like cells can be analyzed classically by multiparametric flow cytometry or by transcriptomic analyses such as bulk or single-cell RNA sequencing. Besides, modifications in intracellular metabolism dr
L30:• Bone marrow MOs were gated as Ly6G-MHCII-CD3-CD11b + Ly6C +  living cells ( Figure 1 ).
[44ms]
