L26:To establish whether  S.  Typhimurium could preferentially survive within macrophages that have ingested viable versus dead host cells, an in vitro tissue culture infection assay was developed. Primary bone marrow–derived mouse macrophages (BMDMs) were generated from Slc11a1 wild-type mice. BMDMs were activated with the cytokine interferon-gamma (IFNγ) and LPS on the premise that in vivo  S.  Typhimurium are likely to encounter activated macrophages after the first few days of infection [ 14 , 15 ]. Activated BMDMs were incubated with media, polystyrene beads, apoptotic cells, necrotic cells (data not shown), or live cells. Within thirty minutes, both beads and cells were phagocytosed by the activated BMDMs ( Figure 5 B). As expected, many of the beads or cells added to the unactivated BMDMs were not phagocytosed and were therefore removed with washing ( Figure 5 A).  S.  Typhimurium was added to the BMDMs 1-hour after the addition of beads or cells. Thirty minutes later, gentamicin was added to kill extracellular bacteria. Two hours post-infection, intracellular  S.  Typhimurium were enumerated by plating lysed BMDMs on selective media. There were up to 2-fold differences in the number of bacteria in BMDMs across samples ( Figure 6 A), but the patterns of these differences varied between experiments and were not considered significant. By 18-hours post-infection, the number of intracellular  S.  Typhimurium declined in activated BMDMs that were pre-incubated with media only, beads, or dead cells ( Figure 6 B). This is consistent with previous observations that activate
L27:Figure 5 Activated Bone Marrow–Derived Macrophages (BMDMs) Phagocytose Live Host Cells Confocal fluorescence microscopy. BMDMs are blue (F4–80 and MOMA-2), human T cells (Jurkats) are green (CMFDA-stained), and DNA is gray (DAPI). (A–C) 30 min after the addition of Jurkats to BMDMs. (A) Unactivated BMDMs show little association with Jurkat cells, many of which were washed away. Scale bar is 40 μm (B and C). Activated macrophages phagocytose Jurkat cells; arrow denotes engulfed cell, arrowheads show partially engulfed cells. Scale bars are 40 μm (B) and 8 μm (C). (D–F) 42 h after mock-infection (D), or  S.  Typhimurium-infection (O-antigen, red, arrows, E and F). Scale bars are 20 μm (D), 40 μm (E), and 16 μm (F).
L35:Hemophagocytosis is the phenomenon of activated macrophages engulfing cells of the hematopoietic lineage [ 20 ]. It can occur in patients infected with evolutionarily diverse microbial agents, including Staphylococci, Mycobacteriae, Leishmaniae, Epstein-Barr virus, and influenza virus [ 20 , 21 ]. Hemophagocytosis is also associated with genetic, neoplastic, and rheumatic disorders. Patients with hemophagocytosis typically experience fever, splenomegaly, and cytopenias, specifically leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia [ 20 ]. Bone marrow, liver, or spleen biopsies may reveal numerous hemophagocytic macrophages in these patients [ 21 ]. While it is clear that in clinical situations hemophagocytosis is pathological [ 20 ], it is unknown whether the phenomenon could benefit the host in certain situations or at sub-clinical levels.
L36:Hemophagocytosis is an established clinical feature of human typhoid fever. English-language observations of hemophagocytosis in typhoid patients date back to 1898 with the description of large phagocytic cells containing red and white blood cells in livers obtained from patients who died during the first couple weeks of infection [ 22 ]. More recent papers also describe hemophagocytosis in typhoid patients, sometimes referring to the hyperphagocytic macrophages as “typhoidal cells” [ 23 – 29 ]. For example, in one study, bone marrow biopsies were performed on 40 juvenile patients who tested positive for typhoid, paratyphi A or paratyphi B by blood culture and agglutination. Thirty-four patients (85%) had macrophages that contained multiple cell types, including granulocytes, lymphocytes, blood platelets, and erythrocytes [ 30 ]. Thus, hemophagocytosis occurs in a significant subset of typhoid patients.
L38:It is difficult to experimentally determine within an animal model whether engulfed cells of infected tissues were alive or dead upon phagocytosis. Therefore a cell culture assay was developed to test the corollary that  S.  Typhimurium survives preferentially in macrophages that phagocytosed viable leukocytes versus dead or no leukocytes. This assay relied upon activating macrophages with the inflammatory cytokine interferon-gamma (IFNγ), which can play a major role in maintaining and possibly establishing hemophagocytosis in humans [ 31 ]. Severe systemic hemophagocytosis is often rapidly fatal due to a dramatic reduction in circulating red blood cells. Patients with severe hemophagocytosis have high IFNγ blood serum levels and can be successfully treated with a combination of inhibitory anti-IFNγ antibodies and blood transfusion. This indicates that IFNγ is important for maintenance of the pathological state, likely via macrophage activation [ 21 ]. One consequence of in vitro macrophage activation with IFNγ is increased phagocytosis of particles, including beads, dead cells, and live cells ( Figure 5  and data not shown). Therefore, IFNγ-activated tissue culture macrophages that had engulfed different particles were used to establish whether macrophages that ingested viable host cells preferentially allow  S.  Typhimurium to survive. First, activated primary bone marrow–derived macrophages were incubated with beads, viable lymphocytes, or dead lymphocytes, each of which became phagocytosed ( Figures 5  and  6 ). The macrophages were infected with  S.  Typhimurium an
L48:Liver and spleen samples were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, embedded in 2% agarose, and cut into 50 μm sections on a Leica Vibratome VT1000S. Sections were incubated in serum-free protein block (Dako Cytomation) containing 0.2% saponin and then with subsets of the following primary antibodies: rabbit anti- S.  Typhimurium LPS O-antigen Group B polyclonal antisera (1:500; BD Biosciences), rat anti-mouse F4–80 and MOMA-2 (1:10; Serotec), phalloidin-Alexa488 (1:200; Molecular Probes), biotin-conjugated anti- Gr-1/Ly-6G/RB6-8C5 (1:25; MCA771B, Serotec), and biotin-conjugated hamster anti-CDɛ (1:25; BioLegend). Anti-Gr-1/Ly-6G/ RB6-8C5 recognizes a low-molecular-weight phosphatidylinositol-anchored cell surface glycoprotein expressed on granulocytes [ 12 ], a subset of eosinophils, plasmacytoid dendritic cells (which produce IFNα and IL-12 in response to viruses but not bacteria) [ 45 ], and transiently in the bone marrow during developmental stages of monocytes. This antibody does not cross-react with Ly-6C [ 46 ], as previously reported [ 47 ]. Sections were incubated with the following secondary antibodies: goat anti-rabbit-Alexa568, goat anti-rat-Alexa680, streptavidin-Alexa514, anti-hamster-Alexa546 (Molecular Probes). Sections were incubated with DAPI and mounted in ProLong Gold anti-fade reagent (Molecular Probes). Nick end-labeling was performed using Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) tissues sectioned at 4 μm on a Leica Microtome RM2035, processed according to the Fluorescein FragEL DNA fragmentation Detection kit (Calbiochem) instructions, and counterstained
L49:Bone marrow–derived macrophage isolation and culture.
L50:Bone marrow–derived macrophages (BMDMs) were isolated as previously described [ 48 ]. Briefly, marrow was flushed from femurs and humeri of 3.5–4.5 week old 129SvEvTac (Taconic) mice. Stem cells were isolated by overlaying on Histopaque-1083 (Sigma-Aldrich) and grown in Dulbecco modified Eagle medium (DMEM; Sigma-Alrich) supplemented w/ 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS; HyClone), glutamine, sodium pyruvate, and 10 ng/ml granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF; PeproTech) at 37 °C, 5% CO2 for 6 days [ 49 , 50 ]. Cells were assayed for expression of macrophage-specific markers, specifically a mixture of F4–80 and MOMA-2 as described above.
L151: Characterization and regulation of RB6-8C5 antigen expression on murine bone marrow cells 
L253: White blood cells and bone marrow in typhoid fever 
L261: Hemophagocytosis and granulomas in the bone marrow of a child with Down syndrome 
L276: Bone marrow pathology of culture proven typhoid fever 
L284: Bone marrow histiocytic hyperplasia and hemophagocytosis with pancytopenia in typhoid fever 
L292: Diagnostic value of bone marrow and blood picture in salmonellosis 
L428: Selective expression of Ly-6G on myeloid lineage cells in mouse bone marrow. RB6-8C5 mAb to granulocyte-differentiation antigen (Gr-1) detects members of the Ly-6 family 
L436: Bone marrow-derived macrophages: development and regulation of differentiation markers by colony-stimulating factor and interferons
[43ms]
