L15:We analyzed the transcriptional signatures of mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages at different times after infection with promastigotes of the protozoan parasite  Leishmania major . Ingenuity Pathway Analysis revealed that the macrophage metabolic pathways including carbohydrate and lipid metabolisms were among the most altered pathways at later time points of infection. Indeed,  L. major  promastiogtes induced increased mRNA levels of the glucose transporter and almost all of the genes associated with glycolysis and lactate dehydrogenase, suggesting a shift to anaerobic glycolysis. On the other hand,  L. major  promastigotes enhanced the expression of scavenger receptors involved in the uptake of Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL), inhibited the expression of genes coding for proteins regulating cholesterol efflux, and induced the synthesis of triacylglycerides. These data suggested that  Leishmania  infection disturbs cholesterol and triglycerides homeostasis and may lead to cholesterol accumulation and foam cell formation. Using Filipin and Bodipy staining, we showed cholesterol and triglycerides accumulation in infected macrophages. Moreover, Bodipy-positive lipid droplets accumulated in close proximity to parasitophorous vacuoles, suggesting that intracellular  L. major  may take advantage of these organelles as high-energy substrate sources. While the effect of infection on cholesterol accumulation and lipid droplet formation was independent on parasite development, our data indicate that anaerobic glycolysis is actively induced by  L. major  during the establishment
L24:BALB/c mice (Elevage Janvier) were killed and hind legs removed for bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDM) isolation. Briefly, femurs and tibias were flushed with RPMI 1640 using a 25-gauge needle. Contaminating erythrocytes were lysed through the addition of Gey lysis solution (ammonium chloride 1.5M, EDTA 0.1 mM, pH 7.3). All cells were incubated in T75 culture flasks at 1.5 10 6  cell per ml in RPMI 1640 media supplemented with 5 mM L-glutamine, 10% heat inactivated foetal calf serum, penicillin (100 U/ml) and streptomycin (100 µg/ml) and 80 ng/ml M-CSF (Peprotech, Neuilly sur Seine, France) overnight for stromal cell elimination. Non-adherent, immature macrophages were transferred to fresh culture-treated Petri dishes (Nunc, USA) and grown for 7 days, with re-feeding on day 3, to induce macrophage differentiation. Generated macrophages were assessed by flow cytometry for expression of F4/80 (around 90% were positive).
L93: [34] . Moreover, a recent study revealed that cytoplasmic LDs are translocated across the inclusion membrane into the lumen of the parasitophorous vacuole (PV) in  Chlamydia  infected cells  [35] . A similar mechanism of lipid acquisition by  Leishmania  may exist that allows the parasite to take advantage of this high-energy source. From another point of view, accumulation of LD may be implicated in the cross-presentation of antigens derived from PVs containing live parasites. Indeed, accumulation of lipid bodies has been reported to be required for normal and efficient cross-presentation of OVA-coated latex beads by dendritic cells  [36] . Interestingly, expression of a member of the IRG gene family (Irgm3) that has recently been implicated in this pathway was induced in  Leishmania -infected BMdM. Both live and heat-inactivated  Leishmania  promastigotes induce the transcription of the same set of genes involved in the intracellular cholesterol accumulation and foam cell formation in bone marrow-derived macrophages suggesting that the development of the parasite is not required. Accumulation of cholesterol and formation of lipids bodies may be achieved through the stimulation of different receptors such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs) that have been implicated in the recognition and control of  Leishmania  parasites  [37] ,  [38] ,  [39] . Indeed, a recent study revealed that TLR stimulation impairs macrophage cellular cholesterol efflux  in vivo
[98ms]
