L6:Human macrophages are specialised hosts for HIV-1, dengue virus,  Leishmania  and  Mycobacterium tuberculosis . Yet macrophage research is hampered by lack of appropriate cell models for modelling infection by these human pathogens, because available myeloid cell lines are, by definition, not terminally differentiated like tissue macrophages. We describe here a method for deriving monocytes and macrophages from human Pluripotent Stem Cells which improves on previously published protocols in that it uses entirely defined, feeder- and serum-free culture conditions and produces very consistent, pure, high yields across both human Embryonic Stem Cell (hESC) and multiple human induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (hiPSC) lines over time periods of up to one year. Cumulatively, up to ∼3×10 7  monocytes can be harvested per 6-well plate. The monocytes produced are most closely similar to the major blood monocyte (CD14 + , CD16 low , CD163 + ). Differentiation with M-CSF produces macrophages that are highly phagocytic, HIV-1-infectable, and upon activation produce a pro-inflammatory cytokine profile similar to blood monocyte-derived macrophages. Macrophages are notoriously hard to genetically manipulate, as they recognise foreign nucleic acids; the lentivector system described here overcomes this, as pluripotent stem cells can be relatively simply genetically manipulated for efficient transgene expression in the differentiated cells, surmounting issues of transgene silencing. Overall, the method we describe here is an efficient, effective, scalable system for the reproducible productio
L9:Macrophages are widely distributed throughout the tissues of the body, being involved in tissue repair and homeostasis, as well as being a key component of the immune system. They are hosts for various macrophage-tropic pathogens, including HIV-1, dengue virus,  Leishmania  and  Mycobacterium tuberculosis . However, macrophage research has been hampered by the difficulty of obtaining and working with this terminally differentiated cell-type. Blood monocyte-derived macrophages have been used for many years as a relevant experimental model of human  in vivo  macrophages. However, relatively large amounts of blood are usually required from each donor. Each donor’s cells will be in significantly different physiological states on different occasions and each donor is genetically different. It is necessary, therefore, to use many different donors on multiple occasions, to ensure that an experimental observation is representative. An additional issue is that macrophages are particularly refractory to genetic manipulation, yet only by manipulating the expression of specific genes in an otherwise fixed genetic background can the role of those gene products be properly studied. Animal models do not adequately overcome these problems as species differences can mean results are not always relevant to human immunopathology. Meanwhile, human myeloid cell lines, such as THP-1, are karyotypically abnormal and, by definition, are not terminally differentiated like macrophages. CD34 +  haematopoietic stem cells isolated from cord blood or bone marrow offer a tractable system for genetic m
L11:We have previously described a simpler method for producing functional monocytes and macrophages from hESC  [8] . This method utilises the spontaneous differentiation of hESC into embryoid bodies (comprising ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm), followed by directed differentiation along the myeloid lineage by IL-3 and M-CSF, to produce a homogeneous population of monocytes (esMC), which can be further differentiated into macrophages (esMDM). These macrophages are phenotypically and functionally comparable to blood monocyte-derived macrophages (bMDM). However, although this method can yield over 1×10 7  monocytes (MC) from a 6-well plate of differentiation cultures  [8] , such high yields are generally only achieved once a week, for 1–3 weeks, after which yields dramatically decrease. Moreover, there is substantial variability in monocyte yield across different hESC and hiPSC lines. Serum is the most likely component of the medium to cause the tail-off in productivity and the variability between differentiation runs, as it likely contains many growth factors, not all of which are necessarily optimal for myeloid lineage maintenance. Therefore, to optimize differentiation, we sought to remove serum during monocytopoiesis. We have also developed a fully chemically defined, serum- and feeder-free protocol for monocyte and macrophage production, which substantially improves reproducibility. Using this serum-free protocol we can now generate differentiation cultures which continue to produce harvestable, uniform monocytes for many months and even up to 1 year. We demonstrate that
L14:Two differentiation protocols were developed ( Figure 1A +B). In the quick protocol, MDM were derived from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSC) cultured on a layer of mouse feeder cells, lifted mechanically to form variable-sized EBs by culturing the PSC for four days on ultra-low adherence plates. EBs were further differentiated by seeding approximately 20 EBs into a well of a 6-well plate cultured in X-VIVO™ 15 media supplemented with IL-3 and M-CSF.
L15:Figure 1 Protocols for the long-term production of PSC-MDM which are genetically modifiable. A) Diagram outlining the defined and quick protocols for the differentiation of MDM from PSC. Using the defined protocol, PSC colonies are cultured on feeder-free Synthemax™ tissue culture plates and uniform EBs are generated using centrifugation of PSC in a 96-well plate (to isolate single EBs) or in a AggreWell™ plate. The defined EBs are formed in mTeSR™-1 medium and require the addition of three growth factors. Using the quick protocol, PSC colonies are cultured on inactivated feeder cells and EBs are generated using mechanical dissociation and culture in PSC media in ultra-low adherence plates. After 4 days of EB culture, EBs are transferred to regular tissue culture plates and differentiated in X-VIVO™ 15 media, supplemented with M-CSF and IL-3. Non-adherent PSC-MC can be harvested from the supernatant of cultures and plated in X-VIVO™ 15 media+M-CSF without serum, or in RPMI media +10% serum+M-CSF, to generate PSC-MDM. A pure population of genetically modified PSC-MDM can be obtained by transducing PSC with a self-inactivating lentiviral construct (in this case expressing RFP-IRES-Puromycin R  under control of the EF1alpha promoter). Scale bar, 200 µM. Detailed protocol described in materials and methods. B) Characteristics of the defined and quick protocol. C) Histogram represents RFP expression by PSC-MDM differentiated from PSC transduced with EF1a-RFP-IRES-Puromycin R  (black line) or control PSC-MDM (shaded gray).
L17:Using either the quick protocol or the defined protocol, EBs adhered and within 2 weeks and produced a homogeneous population of PSC-MC that could be harvested weekly from the supernatant of the differentiation cultures. Harvested PSC-MC were cultured in M-CSF for 5–7 days to allow the differentiation into PSC-MDM. This final stage could be in either media (RPMI) supplemented with serum or using serum-free conditions (X-VIVO™ 15 media).
L27:To test whether PSC-MC can differentiate into MDM similar to b-MC, MCs were harvested and differentiated for 7 days in the presence of M-CSF, and their morphology and phenotype were assessed ( Figure 4 ). PSC-MC differentiated into an adherent PSC-MDM population with characteristic membranes blebs and ruffles, with an b-MDM-like morphology. All MDM had a proportion of elongated (spindle-shaped), ‘M-MDM’-like cells ( Figure 4A ). M-MDM have been described as having greater anti-inflammatory, regulatory and phagocytic functions, versus ‘GM-MDM’, which have greater pro-inflammatory effects  [13] ,  [14] ,  [15] ,  [16] ,  [17] . The diameter of PSC-MDM (mean diameter ± SEM: 19.4 µM ±0.06, n = 3) was similar to b-MDM (mean ± SEM: 17.6±0.60. n = 6), indicating that the size difference at the monocyte level was not apparent after a week of differentiation to macrophages ( Figure 4B ). Both PSC-MDM (mean viability ± SEM: 87.1% ±1.42, n = 3) and b-MDM were similarly viable (mean viability ± SEM: 90.6% ±1. 2, n = 6), as assessed by AO-DAPI staining and expressed expected macrophage markers, as assessed by FACs, although MHC Class II was notably low on PSC-MDM ( Figure 4C,D ).
L47:We have developed here serum-free and fully defined methods to produce consistent, large numbers of human pluripotent stem cell-derived monocytes, which resemble the major blood monocyte. PSC-MC were CD14 + ,CD16 low  CD163 + , and differentiated into functionally relevant macrophages similar to M-CSF-differentiated b-MDM  [13] ,  [30] ,  [31] ,  [32] . PSC-MDM were highly phagocytic and had similar resting and activated cytokine secretion profiles to b-MDM.
L69:For differentiation, ∼10 EBs were transferred into one well of a six-well tissue culture plate in 3 mL medium or 1 EB was transferred into one well of a 24-well tissue culture plate in 1 mL medium. 2/3 of the medium was replaced every 5 days. Culture medium consisted of X-VIVO TM 15 (Lonza), supplemented with 100 ng/mL M-CSF (Invitrogen), 25 ng/mL IL-3 (R&D), 2 mM glutamax (Invitrogen), 100 U/mL penicillin and 100 µg/mL streptomycin (Invitrogen), and 0.055 mM β-mercaptoethanol (Invitrogen). Once esMC were visible in the supernatant of the cultures (from 2–3 weeks onwards), non-adherent esMC were harvested weekly from the supernatant of EB cultures. For characterization of surface antigen during monocytopoiesis, adherent EB cultures were harvested using Collagenase B (Roche). Collagenase B was obtained as a powder and dissolved in PBS at 0.4 U/mL and sterilised by passing through a 0.22 µM filer. The media of cell cultures was removed and cultures were washed with 2 mL PBS. 1 mL of Collagenase B was added per 9.5 cm 2  (1 well of a 6-well plate) and incubated at 37°C for 1–1.5 hours. Next, with a pair of syringe needles (26 g × ½”) cell cultures were pulled apart and another 0.5 mL collagenase B was added. The cell suspension was pipetted up and down to further break up clumps and returned to the incubator for another 30 min. Next, the cell suspension, was passed through a 100 µM cell strainer, followed by PBS, and cells were counted and prepared according to the methods for flow cytometry.
L73:Monocytes were plated onto tissue culture-treated 6-well plates (Corning) at a density of 1.5×10 6  cells/well; or at 6×10 5  cells/well of a 12-well plate (Greiner Bio-One); or at a density of 3×10 5  cells/well of a 24-well plates (Corning), or 1×10 5  cells/well of a 96-well plates (Corning). Monocytes were maintained in MDM medium (.375×10 6 /mL), consisting of RPMI 1640 (PAA) with 10% FCS (PAA), or in X-VIVO TM 15 (Lonza) where specifically stated. The medium was supplemented with 100 ng/mL (approx. 1.7×10 4  units/mL) recombinant human M-CSF (R&D Systems), as well as, 2 mM glutamine (PAA), 100 U/mL penicillin and 100 µg/mL streptomycin (PAA). Monocytes were incubated at 37°C, with 5% CO 2  and differentiated for 5–7 days prior to use. For activation of macrophages for cytokine profile experiments, IFNγ (R&D, 100 U/mL) and LPS (Sigma, 100 ng/mL), or IL-4 (50 ng/mL, R&D) were added to the culture medium during the last 16 hours of culture. For MDM analysis, cells were detached using cold PBS containing EDTA (5 mM).
L91:The primer set used detects a conserved HIV-1 cDNA sequence, corresponding to a 81-bp fragment from the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase gene  (pol) . Reactions contained 10 µL BrilliantqPCR Mastermix (Agilent Technologies), 375 nM forward primer, 375 nM reverse primer, 125 nM probe, 300 nM reference dye and ∼80 ng DNA from infected cells (generally 2 µL), in a total reaction volume of 20 µL. Standards were prepared in duplicate using the pNL4.3.Luc.R-E- HIV-1 backbone plasmid diluted ranging from 10 to 1×10 7  copies. To allow normalisation of the number of copies of HIV-1 DNA to the number of cells, β-actin DNA was quantified (β-actin control kit, Eurogentec) in parallel, according to the manufacturer’s instructions. β-actin standards were prepared using human Xsomal genomic DNA (Eurogentec) at 10 fold dilutions ranging from 60 ng to 0.006 ng. The fast qPCR programme was as follows: 95°C for 3 min, and 40 cycles of 95°C for 5 sec, 60°C for 10 sec, and performed on an Applied Biosystems StepOne Plus Real Time PCR machine, with StepOne software. To measure multiple rounds of HIV infection, macrophages were infected in 96-well plates with HIV-1 BaL for 6 h at 37°C. The inoculum was removed and replaced with RPMI +10% FCS +100 ng/mL M-CSF. Over a 2–3 week period, supernatant samples were taken at intervals and kept at −20°C. Samples were diluted in TES (1×Tris buffered saline TBS, 1% Empigen Fluka, 10% FCS, 0.05% Tween 20), heat inactivated and p24 levels quantified by p24 ELISA as described previously  [44] .
L104:Figure S3 PSC-MC production and PSC-MDM characterisation using the fully defined protocol.  A) Non-adherent PSC-MC were harvested from the supernatant of differentiation cultures and counted using a cell counter (Chemometec). The media were replaced for repeated PSC-MC harvests over a period of 10 week. Data represent the cumulative number of viable PSC-MC from 6 wells. B) PSC-MDM were generated xenofree by culturing PSC-MC for 7 days in X-VIVO TM 15 supplemented with M-CSF. Surface expression of CD14, CD16, CD163. MHC II and CD4 were measured by flow cytometry. Histograms represent surface staining (black line) compared to isotype control (shaded gray). (TIF)
L121:8 Karlsson KR ,  Cowley S ,  Martinez FO ,  Shaw M ,  Minger SL ,  et al  ( 2008 )  Homogeneous monocytes and macrophages from human embryonic stem cells following coculture-free differentiation in M-CSF and IL-3 .  Exp Hematol 
L165:31 Xu W ,  Schlagwein N ,  Roos A ,  van den Berg TK ,  Daha MR ,  et al  ( 2007 )  Human peritoneal macrophages show functional characteristics of M-CSF-driven anti-inflammatory type 2 macrophages .  Eur J Immunol 
L177:37 Karlsson K ,  Cowley S ,  Martinez F ,  Shaw M ,  Minger S ,  et al  ( 2008 )  Homogeneous monocytes and macrophages from human embryonic stem cells following coculture-free differentiation in M-CSF and IL-3 .  Experimental hematology
[83ms]
