L1:Establishment of Self-Renewable GM-CSF-Dependent Immature Macrophages  In Vitro  from Murine Bone Marrow
L6:Macrophages play a key role in the innate immune system. Macrophages are thought to originate from hematopoietic precursors or the yolk sac. Here, we describe the  in vitro  establishment of self-renewable GM-CSF-dependent immature macrophages (GM-IMs) from murine bone marrow (BM). GM-IMs grow continuously  in vitro  in conditioned medium containing GM-CSF. The immunophenotype of GM-IMs is F4/80 high  CD11b high  CD11c low  Ly6C low . By comparing gene expression in GM-IMs and BM dendritic cells, we found that GM-IMs expressed lower levels of chemokines, cytokines and their receptors. GM-IMs are round in shape, attach loosely to non-coated culture dishes and have a marked phagocytic capacity. These results indicate that GM-IMs are macrophage precursor cells. Following stimulation with LPS, monocyte-like GM-IMs converted to flat macrophage-like cells that tightly adhered to non-coated culture dishes and produced pro-inflammatory cytokines TNFα, IL-6 and IL-1β. These results indicated that GM-IMs differentiated to M1 pro-inflammatory macrophages. This was confirmed by stimulation of GM-IMs with IFNγ, an inducer of M1 markers. GM-IMs showed enhanced expression of M2 macrophage markers such as  Arg1  and  Retnla  following stimulation by Th2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. When GM-IMs were injected into mice at sites of wounding, wound repair was enhanced. These results indicate that GM-IMs can differentiate to M2 macrophages. When GM-IMs were injected into clodronate-treated mice, they induced resident macrophage proliferation by producing M-CSF. In conclusion we have established
L9:Macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs) are present in all tissues and are crucial for immune and inflammatory responses. They belong to a network of cells that has been termed the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) [ 1 ]. The MPS originates from bone marrow (BM) hematopoietic stem cells. Macrophage precursors are released into the circulation as monocytes, and within a few days they seed tissues throughout the body, including the spleen, which serves as a storage reservoir for immature monocytes [ 2 , 3 ]. However, the origin and lineage of these cells are still controversial. In adults, hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) give rise to most macrophages and they are replaced continually by macrophage and DC precursors [ 4 , 5 ]. In adult mammals, HSCs also give rise to circulating monocytes. All resident macrophages in tissues may be derived from circulating monocytes [ 2 ]. However, this model of the development of the MPS has been challenged recently. In vertebrate embryos, two different types of hematopoietic cells can give rise to macrophages [ 6 , 7 ]. In mice, on embryonic day 8 (E8), the yolk sac (YS) gives rise to macrophages [ 8 ]. Then, definitive HSCs emerge from the mouse hematogenic endothelium of the aorto-gonadal-mesonephros region at E10.5 [ 9 , 10 ]. At later times, the fetal liver is the source of definitive hematopoiesis that generates circulating monocytes during embryogenesis. Coincident with the postnatal formation of bone, fetal liver hematopoiesis declines and is replaced by BM hematopoiesis. In classical experiments, Furth et al. showed the dual origin
L10:Functional studies have shown that macrophages originate in BM as monocytes. Circulating Ly6c high  monocytes enter the inflamed tissues and become M1 macrophages (activated macrophages or inflammatory macrophages) and resident Ly6c low  monocytes become M2 macrophages (resident macrophages or activated macrophages) [ 3 , 13 ]. These two states are defined by responses to interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and activation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), and to interleukin-4 (IL-4) and IL-13, respectively [ 14 , 15 ]. Here, we established GM-CSF-dependent self-renewable immature macrophages (GM-IMs) by continued culture in GM-CSF-conditioned medium (CM). The cells constitute a single population and have continued to proliferate over the long-term. GM-IMs could differentiate to M1 or M2 macrophage subpopulations.
L15:BM cells (3 x 10 6 ) from C57BL/6N mice were cultured on 100 mm diameter non-coated plastic culture dishes using RPMI-1640 (Sigma) supplemented with penicillin, streptomycin (Invitrogen), 50 µM 2-mercaptoethanol, 10% heat-inactivated FBS (Gibco) and 10% medium conditioned by murine GM-CSF-producing Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells (GM-CSF-CM), a gift from Dr. T. Sudo, Toray Silicon, Tokyo, Japan. At day ten, non-adherent cells were collected as BMDC and attached cells were collected as BM macrophages (BMMφ). GM-IMs were continuously cultured with 10% GM-CSF-CM. To isolate peritoneal macrophages, mice were injected intraperitoneally with one mL of 3% (wt/vol) thioglycollate medium (Sigma). Three days later, cells were harvested from the peritoneal cavities by lavage with ice-cold PBS. RAW264.7 cells were obtained from RIKEN. Cells were cultured in DMEM (Sigma) with 10% heat-inactivated FBS. For growth curves, GM-IMs were sub-cultured every three or four days and the number of GM-IMs was measured by trypan blue dye exclusion using a Burker-Turk cell count chamber and calculated total cell number. Phase contrast photographs of cells were taken by using FSX100 bio imaging navigator (Olympus).
L33:FITC-E . coli  particles were opsonized with mouse serum for five min at 37°C. Cells were cultured with FITC-labeled  E. coli  particles (Molecular Probes) for the indicated times, and fluorescence was analyzed with the FACSCanto. To assess bacterial survival, cells were cultured (5 x 10 4  cells/well) in 96-well plates and infected with five-fold serially diluted  E. coli  (DH5, 4.8x10 5 /well) or  S. aureus  (FDA209, ATCC 6538) in 100 µL RPMI medium containing 10% FBS and 3% GM-CSF-CM at 37°C for 16 hr. After infection, the culture medium of optimally diluted wells was plated on LB (for  E. coli ) or nutrient broth (for  S. aureus ) agar plates and incubated at 37°C overnight. The number of colonies was evaluated.
L43:1: Selection of self-renewable GM-CSF-dependent immature macrophages by long-term culture of BM cells with GM-CSF
L44:We cultured BM cells from C57BL/6 or EGFP-C57BL/6 mice in the presence of conditioned medium made by cells secreting recombinant murine GM-CSF (GM-CSF-CM). This method is frequently used to prepare murine BMDCs or BMMφ [ 19 ]. Early in the cultivation of BM cells in non-coated culture dishes with GM-CSF-CM, we observed mixed populations of myeloid cells ( Figure 1A ). BMDCs are non-adherent cells, whereas BMMφ are adherent. Both were collected after six to 12 days of GM-CSF culture for these experiments. When these cells were continuously cultured in 10% GM-CSF-CM over the long-term, cells had a round shape and were loosely attached to the non-coated dish ( Figure 1A ). The growth of cells declined between three weeks to three months and then increased ( Figure 1B ). Most cells cannot proliferate in GM-CSF and die by cellular senescence. Indeed, the number of cells staining positively for senescence-associated-β galactosidase (SA-β gal) increased from three weeks to three months ( Figure 1C ). During continuous culture, the staining of SA-β weakened, which correlated with the cell growth curve. The expression of p16 INK4A  was gradually upregulated and peaked at three months of culture ( Figure 1D ). It correlated with the stagnation period of growth. During continuous culture, we observed the appearance of a homogenous population of round cells that grew well and were relatively small compared with BMMφ ( Figure 1E ). This cell population could be cultured for more than one year. These long-term cultured myeloid cells were termed GM-CSF-dependent immature macrophages (
L45:Figure 1 Establishment of GM-IMs from murine BM. (A) BM cells were taken from two-month old C57BL/6 or EGFP mice. Suspensions of BM cells (3x10 6  cells) were plated in ten cm diameter non-coated plastic culture dishes. They were cultured in RPMI-1640 supplemented with 10% GM-CSF-CM and 10% FBS. Lower panel shows phase contrast photograph of BM cultured with 10% GM-CSF-CM for six days or six months. Scale bars: 50 µm. (B) Growth curve of GM-IMs. BM cells cultured with 10% GM-CSF-CM for the indicated times, during which cells became GM-IMs. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of four independent experiments. (C) SA-β-gal staining of BM cells cultured with 10% GM-CSF-CM for the indicated times, during which cells became GM-IMs. Scale bars: 100 µm. (D) Expression of cellular senescent marker proteins. Cell lysates were Western blotted for p16. Β-actin was used as a control. (E) May-Grunwald-Giemsa staining of GM-IMs. Five months cultured GM-IMs was compared with days zero and six of BM culture in 10% GM-CSF-CM, BMMφ and peritoneal macrophages (PMφ). Scale bars: 50 µm. Data are representative of three independent experiments with similar results (A, C-E).
L46:It is possible that during cellular senescence, oncogenes were activated and the GM-IMs became tumor-like cells. To exclude this possibility, GM-IMs were cultured with or without GM-CSF-CM. GM-IMs cultured without GM-CSF-CM did not increase and died ( Figure 2A ) and no active cell cycling was observed in the absence of GM-CSF-CM ( Figure 2B ). In the presence of GM-CSF-CM, GM-IMs have low amount of p53 and p21expression during long-term culture. However methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) treatment induced the expression of p53 and p21 in GM-IMs ( Figure S1A ). These results indicated that the proliferation of GM-IMs depended on GM-CSF and that GM-IMs were not transformed cells.
L47:Figure 2 Continuous proliferation of GM-IMs was dependent upon GM-CSF. GM-IMs were plated in ten cm non-coated plastic dishes. They were cultured in RPMI-1640 supplemented with 10% FBS with or without 10% GM-CSF-CM. (A) GM-IMs (3x10 5 ) were cultured in ten cm non-coated dishes and after six days of culture, the cell number was counted by trypan blue dye exclusion. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of four independent experiments. P value: **<0.001. (B) On days one and three of culture, cells were stained with BrdU-FITC and 7-AAD and analyzed by flow cytometry. Data are representative of three independent experiments. (C) Comparison of the average telomere length ratios (ATLR) between BM cells cultured in 10% GM-CSF-CM for the indicated times during which cells became GM-IMs and indicated cells or murine tails. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of three independent experiments. P value: *<0.01, **<0.001 in comparison to that of tail from 8 weeks old murine.
L50:We examined the gene expression profiles of GM-IMs and BMDCs because both grew in GM-CSF-CM. The expression of several chemokine genes ( Ccl5 ,  Ccl17 ,  Ccl22 ,  Cxcl3  and  Cxcl16 ) was lower in GM-IMs than in BMDCs ( Figure 3A ). These chemokines are produced by activated macrophage lineage cells and attract macrophages and lymphocytes. Many chemokine receptors on macrophage lineage cells ( Ccr2 ,  Ccr3 ,  Ccr5 ,  Ccr7  and  Cxcr2 ) were lower in GM-IMs than in BMDCs ( Figure 3B ). GM-IMs expressed  Il1a ,  Il3 ,  Il5 ,  Il9 ,  Il15  and  Il33  genes at higher levels than those in BMDCs, although many other cytokine genes were expressed at lower levels ( Figure 3C ). Also, expression of cytokine receptors on GM-IMs was lower than those on BMDCs ( Figure 3D ). Thus, although the same groups of genes were expressed in GM-IMs and BMDCs, many were expressed at different levels ( Figure S2 ).
L51:Figure 3 Gene expression profiles of GM-IMs compared to BMDCs. Comparison of gene expression levels between ten months cultured GM-IMs and BMDCs cultured for six days, both in 10% GM-CSF-CM. They were analyzed with a GeneChip mouse genome 430 2.0 microarray. (A) Relative chemokine expression of GM-IMs compared to BMDCs. (B-D) Relative chemokine receptor (B), cytokine (C) and cytokine receptor (D) expression, as in (A).
L52:We examined cell surface markers of GM-IMs. GM-IMs stained positively for an F4/80 high  CD11b high  CD11c low  Ly6C low  Gr-1 low  phenotype ( Figure 4A ). Because GM-IMs are a homogenous population after long-term cultivation in GM-CSF-CM, we examined whether the same population existed in the hematopoietic system. We injected GM-CSF-CM twice into mice to determine if the same population of GM-IMs could be expanded. We found the same level of expression of F4/80 +  CD11b +  double positive cells in BM, blood and spleen of control and GM-CSF-CM-injected mice as that of GM-IMs. GM-CSF-CM injection increased the percentage of cells that had the same level of F4/80 and CD11b expression as GM-IMs. Because these included other cells than GM-IMs, which expand in the presence of GM-CSF-CM, we narrowed the gate using two additional markers, CD11c and Gr-1. We found that a population similar to GM-IMs was present, both unstimulated and stimulated in BM, blood and spleen ( Figure 4B ). Furthermore, we sorted BM using a wide gate (F4/80 and CD11b) or a narrow gate (F4/80, CD11b, Gr-1, CD11c). The cell population in wide gate contained not only GM-IMs-like monocyte cells but also other myeloid cells such as BMDCs, BMMφ and neutrophil. In contrast, the cell population found in the narrow gate contained only GM-IMs-like cells ( Figure 4C ). Furthermore, the sorted cells obtained in the narrow gate proliferated well in 10% GM-CSF-CM and gradually became a single population with characteristics of GM-IMs (data not shown). These results suggest that GM-IMs are present in BM.
L53:Figure 4 Expression of macrophage lineage makers on GM-IMs. (A) GM-IMs cultured for more than nine months in 10% GM-CSF-CM were compared with BMMφ or BMDCs cultured for ten days in 10% GM-CSF-CM. They were collected and stained with indicated antibodies and analyzed by flow cytometry using a FACSCanto. (B) BM cells, blood nucleated cells and splenocytes were collected from control mice and mice that had been injected intraperitoneally twice (once per week) with three mL of 10% GM-CSF-CM and were analyzed after two weeks. These cells and GM-IMs were detected by F4/80 and CD11b expression and were gated to assess CD11c and Gr-1. (C) C57BL/6 mice were injected once with three mL of 10% GM-CSF-CM. After seven days, BM cells were prepared and stained with FITC-anti-Gr1, APC-anti-F4/80, eFluor450-anti-CD11b and PE-Cy7-anti-CD11c. Stained cells were sorted with a wide gate (CD11b and F4/80) or a narrow gate (F4/80, CD11b, CD11c, Gr-1). Cells underwent Cytospin preparation and were stained with May-Grunwald-Giemsa. Scale bars: 50 µm. Data are representative of three (A, B) or two (C) independent experiments with similar results.
L55:Figure 5 Functional analysis of GM-IMs. (A) Bacterial killing assay.  S. aureus  (left) or  E. coli  (right) were serially diluted in 96-well plates. They were mixed with 5 x 10 4  PMφ or GM-IMs and cultured overnight in 100 µL RPMI-1640 and 10% FCS and 3% GM-CSF-CM. One µL of mixed culture at appropriate dilution (which showed the clear differences in the number of bacteria) was plated on an agar plate. After 24 hr, the number of colony forming units (CFU) was counted. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of three independent experiments. P value: * <0.01, **<0.001. (B) May-Grunwald-Giemsa stain of GM-IMs cultured with  E. coli  for 24 hr. Left shows GM-IMs without bacteria, and right shows GM-IMs with bacteria. Scale bars: 100 µm. Data are representative of three independent experiments.
L57:Figure 6 Potentials of GM-IMs to differentiate to M1 or M2 macrophages. GM-IMs or PMφ were stimulated with 20 ng/mL IFNγ, 20 ng/mL IL-4 and 20 ng/mL IL-13 or ong µg/mL LPS for 24 hr. (A) Phase contrast photographs of GM-IMs after stimulation. Scale Bar: 100 µm. (B) After stimulation by IFNγ for 24hr, expression of M1 marker genes was analyzed by RT-PCR. (C) After stimulation by LPS, RNA was extracted and expression of M1 marker genes was analyzed by RT-PCR. (D) After stimulation by IL-4 and IL-13, expression of M2 marker genes was analyzed by RT-PCR. (E) GM-IMs or BMMφ (1 x 10 6 ) were cultured in six-well plastic plates with RPMI-1640 containing 10% FBS and 3% GM-CSF-CM. They were stimulated with one µg/mL LPS for indicated times. Supernatants were taken and cytokine expression of IL-6, IL-1β or TNFα was analyzed by ELISA. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of three separate experiments. (F) The dorsal skin of two-month old female C57BL/6 mice (n=4) was punctured through two layers of skin with a sterile disposable three mm biopsy punch (Kai Industries). GM-IMs (3 x 10 4 ) were directly injected into each wound on the right side. PBS was dropped on the other side as a control. The changes in the percentages of wound areas at each time point were compared to the initial wound area. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of three independent experiments. P value: * < 0.05, **<0.01, ***<0.001, GM-IMs injected area versus PBS injected area. Data are representative of three independent experiments with similar results (A-D).
L60:Because GM-IMs are derived from BM cells, a population that contains HSCs, we hypothesized that GM-IMs might represent a stage of myeloid lineage development and that GM-IMs might support the recovery of tissue macrophages after their depletion. Clodronate is known to deplete tissue macrophages. We injected GM-IMs into clodronate liposome-treated mice ( Figure 7A ). When mice were treated with clodronate liposomes, we observed that spleen size decreased. Following intravenous injection of GM-IMs into clodronate-treated mice, spleen size recovered ( Figure 7B, C ). Whereas clodronate-treatment decreased the number of cells in the red pulp, injection of GM-IMs reversed the effect ( Figure 7D ). Clodronate-treatment decreased F4/80 +  macrophages in the spleen, but recovery was seen after two months of GM-IMs injections ( Figure 7E ), with an increase after two weeks ( Figure 7F , S6A). F4/80 +  cells slightly increased in normal spleens after GM-IMs injection ( Figure S6B ). We initially thought that GM-IMs might have proliferated in the macrophage-depleted spleens. However, when we injected GM-IMs taken from EGFP-C57BL/6 mice, we noted only a brief increase of GFP-positive cells in the spleen and almost all macrophages were of host origin ( Figure 7G , S6C). These data indicated that GM-IMs might have entered the clodronate-depleted spleens and induced the proliferation of resident host macrophages but not GM-IMs. Because macrophage proliferation is supported by M-CSF, we measured  Csf1  (encoding M-CSF) expression in spleen. Clodronate-treated spleens decreased  Csf1  e
L61:Figure 7 Effects of injection of GM-IMs to clodronate-liposome treated mice. (A) Schematic outline of clodronate-liposome and GM-IMs treatment. Two-month old female C57BL/6 mice were intravenously injected with clodronate liposomes. After two days, 5 x 10 6  GM-IMs were injected intravenously. (B) Spleens were taken after 14 days or two months of clodronate treatment. (C) The spleen weight per body weight of mice for day 15 to one month after clodronate-treatment. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of seven mice. (D) Frozen sections of spleens two months after clodronate treatment were stained with H and E. Scale Bars: 300 µm. (E) Frozen sections of spleen two months after injection of clodronate were assessed for F4/80 expression by DAB staining (upper). Colors indicate the strength of DAB staining: orange is highest, yellow is mid-level and blue is lowest (lower). Total DAB optical densities are the mean rations ±SE of three independent experiments. (F) The expression of F4/80 in the spleen on days seven or 14 after injection of clodronate. F4/80 was detected by flow cytometry. (G) GM-IMs from EGFP-C57BL/6 mice were injected intravenously after two days of clodronate injection. GFP-positive tissue cells were analyzed by flow cytometry. (H) Expression of  Csf1  and  Csf2  in the spleen. Spleens were taken from C57BL/6 mice after seven days of clodronate injection or clodronate and GM-IMs injection. The expression of  Csf1  and  Csf2  was analyzed by real-time RT-PCR. The data were normalized to  Gapdh . (I) Expression of  Csf1  and  Csf2  in stimulated GM-IMs and PMφ.
L63:There have been no reports of the establishment of normal hematopoietic cells capable of proliferating long-term in vitro in the absence of a feeder layer. Here, we demonstrated that long-term cultivation of myeloid lineage cells could be achieved. Because GM-IMs can self-renew in the presence of GM-CSF, we propose that the same myeloid population might exist  in vivo . We suggest that GM-CSF continuously produced  in vivo  could support a small population of myeloid lineage cells that self-renews. When the level of GM-CSF increases, this population would be expected to increase.
L66:Recent findings show that adult tissue macrophages are primarily derived from the YS in the early embryo. This finding suggested that monocytes derived from bone marrow HSCs constitutively generate tissue-resident macrophages [ 12 , 31 - 33 ]. However, the relationship between macrophages originating from circulating monocytes and resident macrophages has not been elucidated. Here, we showed here that F4/80  +  macrophage was reduced in spleen by the injection of clodronate. GM-IMs injection led to recovery of F4/80  +  macrophage. However, GM-IMs did not proliferate in spleen. A recent report showed that tissue resident macrophages, including those in the spleen, which come from YS, can self-renew [ 12 ]. Furthermore, Hashimoto et al. showed that lung macrophages self-renew in a M-CSF- and GM-CSF-dependent manner [ 34 ]. Our data showed that M-CSF and GM-CSF are constantly expressed in the spleen, which may induce self-renewal of resident macrophages. Following injection of clodronate, expression of M-CSF decreases, although the expression of GM-CSF is not changed. GM-IMs injection increased the expression of M-CSF in the spleen, which might indicate that resident macrophages can recover from some insults. We suggest that GM-IMs might help resident macrophages in the spleen to recover, although further experiments are needed. Here we showed successful long-term culture of immature macrophages in GM-CSF (GM-IMs). GM-IMs differentiated to M1 and M2 macrophages after stimulation respectively by IFNγ or LPS, and IL-4 and IL-13. GM-IMs will be useful for the analysis of mac
L69:BM cells were cultured with 10% GM-CSF-CM for the indicated times, during which cells became GM-IMs. GM-IMs were treated with 80 µg/mL MMS (Sigma) for six hr. Expression of phospho-p53 or p53 protein was detected by Western blotting (upper). Antibodies to phospho-p53 (Ser15), p53 and GAPDH were from Cell signaling. The expression of the p21 was measured by real-time PCR (lower). The data were normalized to  Gapdh . Data are representative of three independent experiments. (B)  Tert  expression. RNA was extracted from BM cells cultured in 10% GM-CSF-CM for the indicated times, during which cells became GM-IMs, BMMφ or MEF. RT-PCR was conducted to assess the expression of  Tert . Β-actin was used as the internal control. (TIF)
L77:(A) GM-IMs or BMMφ (1 x 10 6 ) were cultured in six-well plates with RPMI-1640 containing 10% FBS and 3% GM-CSF-CM. They were stimulated with one µg/mL LPS for indicated times. Supernatants were taken and expression of IL-12 or IL-10 was analyzed by ELISA. Data shown are the mean ratios ± SE of three independent experiments. (B) GM-IMs, BMDCs or BMM were stimulated with one µg/mL LPS. After 16 hr, they were stained with FITC-labeled anti-H-2d or FITC-labeled anti-CD86. They were analyzed by flow cytometry. Data are representative of three independent experiments. (TIF)
L90: et al.  ( 2006 )  A clonogenic bone marrow progenitor specific for macrophages and dendritic cells .  Science 
L125: et al.  ( 1992 )  Generation of large numbers of dendritic cells from mouse bone marrow cultures supplemented with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor .  J Exp Med 
L187:| Csf1 | forward | TGTCCTGTCACAAGCTCTGG |
[67ms]
