L36:We next developed a flow cytometry assay to quantify the transfer event to determine if the direct transfer of bacteria from cell to cell that we observed by live cell imaging occurred at a sufficient frequency to be biologically relevant. In these experiments, we infected cells with  F. tularensis , added the antibiotic gentamicin to kill extracellular bacteria and allowed the intracellular bacteria to proliferate for 18 hr. We then added uninfected recipient cells labeled with Cell Trace Red to these infected cells. The mixed cell population was co-cultured for 6 hr in the presence of gentamicin and then quantified infected recipient cells by flow cytometry based on double staining for Cell Trace Red and intracellular bacteria. Under these conditions  F. tularensis  transferred from infected to uninfected recipient J774 cells, mouse bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) and primary human monocyte derived macrophages (hMDMs) ( Figure 1B ).
L76:We found that trogocytosis is a marker for cell to cell transfer, so we assessed the exchange of plasma membrane proteins in infected splenocytes to track bacterial transfer in vivo. We generated chimeric mice by injecting irradiated F1 B6 and Balb/c mice with wild type Balb/c and transgenic CD45.1 +  B6 bone marrow. In these mice, no cells have genes for both CD45.1 and the MHC-I H2-Kd. Thus, cells must undergo trogocytosis if both CD45.1 and H2-Kd are present on the surface of an individual cell. We infected these mice with  F. tularensis  for 3 days and assayed their splenocytes for infected cells and trogocytosis. Consistent with our in vitro data,  F. tularensis  infection increased trogocytosis ( Figure 4—figure supplement 1B ). Furthermore, infected cells were significantly more likely than uninfected splenocytes from the same mouse to possess both CD45.1 and H2-Kd ( Figure 4F ). Combined with our in vitro data, these results suggest that cell to cell bacterial transfer occurs in a mouse infection model.
L130:All mice were obtained from Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME) and were housed in specific pathogen free housing at the University of North Carolina- Chapel Hill. All mouse experiments were performed under approved protocols from the University of North Carolina- Chapel Hill Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. All mice used were female. The age of mice for bone marrow macrophage production varied (6 weeks to 6 months old). All mice used to generate chimeric mice were 6 weeks old at the time of irradiation or bone marrow harvest.
L131:Bone marrow chimera mouse experiment
L132:F1 mice from a mating of C57Bl/6 and Balb/c mice were irradiated with 1000 cGY using an X-ray irradiator. About 5 hr after irradiation, the irradiated mice were reconstituted by intravenous injection of 10 million T cell depleted bone marrow cells per mouse (T cells depleted using Miltenyi CD3e Microbead Kit following the manufacturers protocol). The bone marrow cells were approximately a 1:1 mixture of cells from wild-type Balb/c mice and CD45.1 C57bl/6 mice (B6.SJL-PTprc a  Pepc b / BojJ). No blinding was performed in these studies.
L133:Five to seven weeks after irradiation, half of the bone marrow chimera mice in each irradiation group were infected intranasally with approximately 500 colony forming units of GFP-expressing  F. tularensis  Schu S4. Mice were randomly assigned to each group. At 3 days post inoculation, the spleens were harvested and made into a single cell suspension. The cells were treated with ammonium chloride lysing buffer to removed red blood cells. The splenocytes were then stained with anti-CD45.1 and anti-H2-KD (Balb/c MHC I) antibodies, washed, fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, stained for intracellular  F. tularensis  and analyzed by flow cytometry.
L183:Yamanaka N Wong CJ Gertsenstein M Casper RF Nagy A Rogers IM 2009 Bone marrow transplantation results in human donor blood cells acquiring and displaying mouse recipient class i MHC and CD45 antigens on their surface PLoS ONE 4 e10625 10.1371/journal.pone.0008489
[47ms]
