L6:Tissue-resident macrophages are heterogeneous with tissue-specific and niche-specific functions. Thus, simplified models of macrophage activation do not explain the extent of heterogeneity seen  in vivo . We focus here on the respiratory tract and ask whether factors secreted by alveolar epithelial cells (AEC) can influence the functionality of resident pulmonary macrophages (PuM). We have previously reported that factors secreted by AEC increase control of intracellular growth of BCG in macrophages. In the current study, we also aimed to investigate possible mechanisms by which AEC-derived factors increase intracellular control of BCG in both primary murine interstitial macrophages, and bone marrow-derived macrophages and characterize further the effect of these factors on macrophage differentiation. We show that; a) in contrast to other macrophage types, IFN-γ did not increase intracellular growth control of  Mycobacterium bovis , Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) by interstitial pulmonary macrophages although the same macrophages could be activated by factors secreted by AEC; b) the lack of response of pulmonary macrophages to IFN-γ was apparently regulated by suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS)1; c) AEC-derived factors did not induce pro-inflammatory pathways induced by IFN-γ e.g. expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), secretion of nitric oxide (NO), or IL-12, d) in contrast to IFN-γ, intracellular bacterial destruction induced by AEC-derived factors was not dependent on iNOS transcription and NO production. Collectively, our data show that PuM were r
L25:Generation of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMM)
L26:BMM were harvested and frozen as previously described  [21] . After thawing, the bone marrow cells were cultured in complete RPMI supplemented with 20% L929 cell conditioned medium (as a source of macrophage colony-stimulating factor) and cultured for 6–7 days, replacing medium every second day. Before use, growth factor-containing media were removed and the BMM cultured in complete RPMI for 24 h. BMM from caspase 1 -/-  mice were kindly provided by S. Musciol and B. Henriques-Normark (MTC, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden)
L101:12 Vereyken EJ ,  Heijnen PD ,  Baron W ,  de Vries EH ,  Dijkstra CD ,  et al  ( 2011 )  Classically and alternatively activated bone marrow derived macrophages differ in cytoskeletal functions and migration towards specific CNS cell types .  J Neuroinflammation 
L118:21 Rothfuchs AG ,  Gigliotti D ,  Palmblad K ,  Andersson U ,  Wigzell H ,  et al  ( 2001 )  IFN-alpha beta-dependent, IFN-gamma secretion by bone marrow-derived macrophages controls an intracellular bacterial infection .  J Immunol 
L124:24 Flesch IE ,  Kaufmann SH  ( 1991 )  Mechanisms involved in mycobacterial growth inhibition by gamma interferon-activated bone marrow macrophages: Role of reactive nitrogen intermediates .  Infect Immun
[114ms]
