L6:Tuberculosis is caused by  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  infection, and it remains major life-threatening infectious diseases worldwide. Although,  M. tuberculosis  has infected one-third of the present human population, only 5–10% of immunocompetent individuals are genetically susceptible to tuberculosis. All inbred strains of mice are susceptible to tuberculosis; however, some mouse strains are much more susceptible than others. In a previous report, we showed that Th1-mediated immunity was not responsible for the differential susceptibility between mouse models. To examine whether these susceptibility differences between inbred mouse strains are due to the insufficient production of effector molecules in the early stage of innate immunity, we investigated mycobacteriostatic function of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) in resistant (BALB/c and C57BL/6) and susceptible strains (DBA/2) that were infected with virulent  M. tuberculosis  (H37Rv) or attenuated  M. tuberculosis  (H37Ra). The growth rate of virulent  M. tuberculosis  in infected cells was significantly higher in DBA/2 BMDMs, whereas the growth of the attenuated strain was similar in the three inbred mouse BMDM strains. In addition, the death rate of  M. tuberculosis -infected cells increased with the infectious dose when DBA/2 BMDMs were infected with H37Rv. The intracellular reactive oxygen species level was lower in DBA/2 BMDMs that were infected with virulent  M. tuberculosis  at an early post-infection time point. The expression levels of phagosomal maturation markers, including early endosomal antig
L11:All inbred mouse strains exhibit susceptibility to infection with  M. tuberculosis  and develop progressive disease in the lungs ( North and Jung, 2004 ;  Gupta and Katoch, 2009 ). However, inbred mouse strains differ substantially in their degree of susceptibility to  M. tuberculosis  infection ( Medina and North, 1998 ). Recent studies have characterized mouse strains as either susceptible (DBA/2, C3H, CBA, and 129Sv) or resistant (C57BL/6 and BALB/c) to intravenous (iv) inoculation with  M. tuberculosis . Susceptibility was defined as early death, which was associated with progressive pathology in the lungs that resulted from the failure to control bacterial growth and a consequentially severe reduction in available surface area in the lungs for oxygen exchange ( Medina and North, 1998 ). In addition, it has been demonstrated that C57BL/6 mice generate a much higher Th1 response than DBA/2 or BALB/c mice, suggesting that susceptibility is not determined by changes in Th1 cell-mediated immunity ( Jung et al., 2009 ). The genes that are critical to determining susceptibility to  M. tuberculosis  infection have not been fully identified in either humans or mice. Although, tuberculosis resistance loci have been characterized in two mouse strains, DBA/2 and C57BL/6 ( Marquis et al., 2009 ), research aimed to investigating the major genetic susceptibility factors in mouse models is ongoing. In this report, to verify the hypothesis that innate differences in the function of macrophages amongst inbred mouse strains could influence susceptibility to  M. tuberculosis  infectio
L14:Five weeks-old male BALB/c, C57BL/6, and DBA/2 mice were purchased from Narabio (Nara Bio., Korea) for use in this study. All mice were housed under specific pathogen-free conditions with food and water provided  ad libitum . All mice were sacrificed when they were 8–10 weeks-old to isolate bone marrow-derived cells. The animal use protocol was performed in accordance with the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of Kangwon National University (KIACUC).
L18:Femurs and tibias were dissected from mice, and the muscle was removed. Both ends of the bones were cut, and the bones were then flushed with RPMI1640 (Lonza, USA) using an 18-gage needle. The cells were centrifuged for 5 min at 1,000 rpm, and then resuspended in RPMI1640 containing 10% FBS (Lonza, USA) for 2 h. Non-adherent cells were collected and, centrifuged, and the red blood cells were removed. Cells were grown in culture dishes in the presence of 30% of the supernatant obtained from L929 cells as a source of M-CSF for 4 days. Non-adherent cells were removed using PBS washes, and the medium was replenished. Adherent cells were used the following day for infection experiments.
L20:Bone marrow-derived macrophages were infected with the  M. tuberculosis  H37Rv or H37Ra strain at an infection ratio of 0.1:1, 1:1, or 5:1. After 4 h of incubation at 37°C in 5% CO 2  to facilitate bacterial uptake, the infected BMDMs were washed with PBS to remove any extracellular bacteria. To analyze the anti-bacterial activity of the BMDMs, the cells were stimulated with mouse recombinant IFN-γ (20 ng/ml, R&D Systems, USA) for 2 h either before or after infection for the indicated time points. For the kinetic growth assays, BMDMs were lysed using 0.1% saponin, and serial dilutions were seeded in Middlebrook 7H10 agar supplemented with OADC. The plates were then incubated at 37°C for 21 days.
L30:Bone marrow-derived macrophages (1 × 10 5  cells) were infected with H37Rv  M. tuberculosis  at an MOI of 1 for 4 h, washed with PBS, and cultured for 12 or 72 h in 6-well plates at 37°C with 5% CO 2 . BMDMs were scraped, spun down, and washed with 1 ml of cold PBS. BMDMs were resuspended in Annexin V binding buffer containing 5 μl of Annexin V-FITC (BD Pharmingen TM , San Diego, CA, USA) and 5 μl of PI (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) for 15 min at room temperature in the dark. After the cells were stained, they were washed once with binding buffer containing 4% paraformaldehyde and then analyzed on a BD-FACSCalibur instrument (BD-Biosciences, San Jose, CA, USA). Flow cytometric analysis was performed using CellQuest (BD-Biosciences) software.
L32:Bone marrow-derived macrophages were incubated in 96-well plate and infected with H37Rv or H37Ra at MOI of 1 for 4 h. After then, cells were washed with PBS and incubated in RPMI1640 (containing 10% FBS) for 48 h. Lactate dehydrogenease (LDH) activity in the media was determined using LDH assay kit (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) according to the manufacturer’s protocols.
L36:Bone marrow-derived macrophages were allowed to adhere to coverslips in 12-well plates and the cells were then infected with fluorescein (FITC)-labeled  M. tuberculosis  H37Rv or H37Ra at an MOI of 5 for 4 h. After 4 h, the unbound  M. tuberculosis  was washed away, and the cells were cultured in complete RPMI 1640 without antibiotics until the indicated time points. Then, the cells were washed with PBS and fixed in PBS containing 4% paraformaldehyde overnight at 4°C. After the cells were fixed, they were permeabilized in 1% Triton X-100 for 10 min and incubated with Alexa Fluor ®  647 anti-mouse CD107a LAMP-1 (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA) or anti-EEA1-Alexa Fluor ®  647 (MBL, Woburn, MA, USA) for 2 h at room temperature. Coverslips were mounted in Fluoromount-G TM  (SouthernBiotech, Birmingham, AB, USA) and examined using confocal microscopy [Olympus (FV1000 SPD)].
[85ms]
