L1:The Effects of  Paracoccidioides brasiliensis  Infection on GM-CSF- and M-CSF-Induced Mouse Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophage from Resistant and Susceptible Mice Strains
L6:Considering the importance of macrophages as the first line of defense against fungal infection and the different roles played by the two M1- and M2-like polarized macrophages, we decided to evaluate the effects of  Paracoccidioides brasiliensis  infection on GM-CSF- and M-CSF-induced bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMM) from the A/J and B10.A mouse strains, an established model of resistance/susceptibility to PCM, respectively. Upon differentiation, the generated GM- or M-BMMs were characterized by morphological analyses, gene expression profiles, and cytokines production. Our main results demonstrate that GM-BMMs derived from A/J and B.10 produced high levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines that may contribute to generate an unbalanced early immune response. In accordance with the literature, the B10.A susceptible mice lineage has an innate tendency to polarize into M1-like phenotype, whereas the opposite phenotype occurs in A/J resistance mice. In this context, our data support that susceptibility and resistance are strongly correlated with M1 and M2 polarization, respectively.
L13:To better understand the role of M1/M2-like macrophage in the PCM murine model, in this work, we evaluated phagocytic and secretory abilities, as well as expression analyses of some genes related to mice antifungal responses in GM-CSF (M1-like) and M-CSF (M2-like) induced bone marrow macrophages obtained from of A/J and B10.A mouse strains infected  in vitro  with a virulent strain of  P. brasiliensis .
L18:P. brasiliensis  resistant (A/J) and susceptible (B10.A) strains of 6 to 12 weeks old male mice [ 14 ,  16 ,  20 ,  33 ] were obtained from the Immunology Department of the University of São Paulo Biomedical Sciences Institute, Brazil. The animals were housed with food and water  ad libitum  at the Animal Care Center of the Biological Institute of the University of Brasilia, Brazil. The mice were euthanized in a carbon dioxide chamber, and their bone marrows were collected. All procedures involving animal were performed following the guidelines for the use of animals according to Brazilian laws and were approved by the Committee of Ethical Use of Animals (Proc. UnBDoc 52657/2011).
L20: Ex Vivo  Infection of GM-BMM (GM-CSF-Induced Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophage) and M-BMM (M-CSF-Induced) Cells from  P. brasiliensis  Resistant and Susceptible Mouse Strains
L21:The two different BMMs populations were obtained using recombinant GM-CSF (20 ng/mL PeproTech) or M-CSF (30% (v/v) of L929 cell-conditioned medium) according to Tadokoro and de Almeida Abrahamsohn [ 34 ]. In this work, the nomenclature adopted is GM-BMM or M-BMM, related to GM-CSF- or M-CSF-induced macrophage differentiation condition, respectively. Briefly, the isolated BMMs from each mouse strain were cultivated in RMPI 1640 medium with 10% fetal bovine serum containing GM-CSF and M-CSF for 7 days when the adherent cells were recovered [ 34 ]. These cells were infected or not with  P. brasiliensis  at a cell-to-yeast ratio of 5 : 1 (multiplicity of infection, MOI: 5 : 1) for 6 h (transcription and ELISA assays) or 24 h (ELISA assays) in a humidified atmosphere of 5% CO 2  at 37°C. This MOI has been previously shown to be nondeleterious to macrophage cultures [ 35 ,  36 ].
L27:The total RNA of the cultured macrophages was obtained employing the RNAeasy Plus Mini Kit (QIAGEN cat. number 74134), in accordance with the manufacturer's protocol. After DNase I treatment (included in the RNeasy Mini Kit Plus), first-strand cDNAs were synthesized from 500 ng of total RNA for each sample following the instructions of SuperScript III (Invitrogen). To confirm the GM- and M-CSF phenotype, the expression of markers genes was tested using specific primers for iNOS (forward-CGAAACGCTTCACTTCCAA, reverse-TGAGCCTATATTGCTGTGGCT) and Arginase-1 (forward-GTTCCCAGATGTACCAGGATTC, reverse-CGATGTCTTTGGCAGATATGC). The internal control used was 40S ribosomal protein S9 (RPS9) gene (forward-CGCCAGAAGCTGGGTTTGT, reverse-CGAGACGCGACTTCTCGAA) [ 36 ]. The qRT-PCR was performed using SyBr Green Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) with the standard cycling condition for this dye.
L33:Our group is interested in studying the host innate immune responses to pathogenic fungi, with emphasis on the role of macrophages from A/J e B10.A mouse strains, which is a well-established model of resistance/susceptibility to PCM [ 14 ,  16 ]. Considering the importance of these phagocytic cells as the first line of defense against fungal infection and the different roles played by the two subtypes of polarized macrophages, we decided to evaluate the response of GM- and M-CSF-induced BMMs of A/J and B10.A mouse strains infected with  P. brasiliensis . Upon differentiation, the generated GM- or M-BMMs were characterized by morphological analyses and by their gene expression profiles, described as important markers to each polarized macrophage subtype.
L35:The  in vitro  expression profile of these marker genes is well known from studies with typical polarized M1 and M2 macrophages stimulated with IFN- γ  and IL-4, respectively, which resulted in iNOS high  and Arg-1 low  in M1 and iNOS low  and Arg-1 high  in M2 [ 23 ,  41 ]. In the present work, the culture conditions used to obtain the different types of BMMs employed only GM-CSF or M-CSF, without any other postdifferentiation mediator. The analysis of the expression profiles revealed that only the BMMs of B10.A strain developed the expected pattern (iNOS high  and Arg-1 low  in response to GM-CSF and iNOS low  and Arg-1 high  to M-CSF stimulus), as shown in  Figure 1(b) . A different expression pattern was observed with GM-BMM of A/J strain, revealing a discrete induction of iNOS, a slight upregulation of Arg-1, and a lack of induction of both genes in M-BMM ( Figure 1(b) ). The paucity of data related to marker genes expression profiles of  in vitro  polarized BMMs from A/J and B10.A mouse strains causes some difficulty in exploring our data. Altogether, the culture conditions and the different mouse strains could explain the absence of a clear expression profile of the marker genes when compared to  in vitro  IFN- γ  and IL-4 poststimulated M1 and M2 macrophages, respectively. Of note, several other genes besides iNOS and Arg-1 are differently expressed in GM-BMM and M-BMM cells. In fact, Lacey et al. [ 42 ] using a whole murine genome microarray showed 4206 genes differentially regulated between the murine C57BL/6 GM-BMM and M-BMM, with no poststimulation, includin
L45:Another crucial aspect of the innate immunity against fungal pathogen is the activation of the inflammasome, a cytoplasmic protein complex composed of PRRs such as NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family, pyrin domain-containing 3), an adaptor protein ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD), and procaspase-1. Upon formation of the complex, procaspase-1 is cleaved into an active cysteine protease, which further leads to the maturation of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1 β  and IL-18. Recently, we have shown that  P. brasiliensis  activates NLRP3 inflammasome [ 51 ]. Feriotti et al. [ 31 ] found that macrophages from the susceptible B10.A mice infected with  P. brasiliensis  exhibited the typical markers of a proinflammatory “M1-like” (GM-BMM) differentiation. In contrast, A/J macrophages exhibited an alternatively activated “M2-like” (M-BMM) differentiation. In this context, here is shown that B10.A macrophages, regardless of M- or GM-CSF-induced differentiation, showed high IL-1 β  transcript accumulation, suggesting an “M1-like” differentiation pattern, whereas in M-BMM of A/J, neither NLRP3 nor IL-1 β  genes were modulated by  P. brasiliensis  infection. Thus, infected M-BMM from A/J preserves the profile associated with resistance (i.e., alternatively activated macrophages). Of note, GM-BMM from A/J showed similar pattern of NLRP3 and IL-1 β  expression when compared to M- and GM-BMM from susceptible B10.A mice (i.e., classically activated macrophages).
L58:Figure 1 Characterization of GM-BMM and M-BMM of A/J and B10.A mice. Murine bone marrow cells were differentiated into macrophages (BMM) in the presence of GM-CSF (GM-BMM) or M-CSF (M-BMM) as described in  Section 2 . (a) Photomicrography of GM-BMM and M-BMM from A/J and B10.A mouse strains stained with Panotic kit (×200). (b) Quantitative PCR analysis (qRT-PCR) of induced nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) or Arginase-1 (ARG-1) mRNA expression from GM-BMM or M-BMM. Bars with SD represent the mean of fold change of the gene expression and are shown as  n -fold difference of GM-BMM to the M-BMM cells. Fold change values were determined after each gene was normalized to the constitutively expressed rps9 gene. Data is representative of three separate experiments. (c) qRT-PCR analysis of Clec7a, Ilr1, Ptx3, Cxcl3, or Il10 mRNA expression from GM-BMM or M-BMM. Bars represent the mean of fold gene expression and are shown as  n -fold difference of GM-BMM to the M-BMM cells. Fold change values were determined after each gene was normalized to the constitutively expressed Gusb (A/J) and B2m (B10.A) genes using the comparative threshold method.
L112:34 Tadokoro C. E. de Almeida Abrahamsohn I. Bone marrow-derived macrophages grown in GM-CSF or M-CSF differ in their ability to produce IL-12 and to induce IFN-gamma production after stimulation with Trypanosoma cruzi antigens Immunology Letters 2001 77 1 31 38 10.1016/s0165-2478(01)00197-3 2-s2.0-0035340358 11348667
L120:42 Lacey D. C. Achuthan A. Fleetwood A. J. Defining GM-CSF- and macrophage-CSF-dependent macrophage responses by in vitro models The Journal of Immunology 2012 188 11 5752 5765 10.4049/jimmunol.1103426 2-s2.0-84862104611 22547697
[57ms]
