L7:The ability to differentiate genetically modified mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells into functional macrophages provides a potentially attractive resource to study host-pathogen interactions without the need for animal experimentation. This is particularly useful in instances where the gene of interest is essential and a knockout mouse is not available. Here we differentiated mouse ES cells into macrophages in vitro and showed, through a combination of flow cytometry, microscopic imaging, and RNA-Seq, that ES cell-derived macrophages responded to  S.  Typhimurium, in a comparable manner to mouse bone marrow derived macrophages. We constructed a homozygous mutant mouse ES cell line in the Traf2 gene that is known to play a role in tumour necrosis factor-α signalling but has not been studied for its role in infections or response to Toll-like receptor agonists. Interestingly,  traf2 -deficient macrophages produced reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or flagellin stimulation and exhibited increased susceptibility to  S.  Typhimurium infection.
L11:To differentiate mouse ES cells to macrophages, we adapted and modified the approach of Zhuang et al. 8  ( Fig. 1a ). Briefly, the procedure involved placing ES cells into 10 cm bacteriological (low-adherence) plates in macrophage differentiation medium (MDM; which lacked the inhibitor of differentiation, LIF, and contained L929 conditioned medium and IL3); this step led to the generation of embryoid bodies (EB). After 6–8 days, the generated EBs in MDM were transferred into gelatinized tissue culture plates to promote adherence of the EB onto the plate and differentiation. Subsequently, supernatants containing non-adherent macrophage progenitors were collected every second day, and adherent macrophages were generated by plating onto low adherence bacteriological plates in MDM; substantial numbers of macrophages appeared after 4 days, with 5 to 10 million macrophages/plate being generated every 2 days from days 14–18. The ESDM were adherent and had long extended plasma projections resembling pseudopodia. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that these ESDM were morphologically indistinguishable from murine BMDMs, exhibiting a large cellular size with a cytoplasm containing vacuoles and organelles and low nuclear to cytoplasm ratios ( Fig. 1b ). This was in contrast to undifferentiated ES cells that had large nuclei and few organelles. ESDM were characterized by flow cytometry to monitor the expression of stem cell pluripotency and macrophage markers. ESDM displayed markers characteristic of macrophages, including the expression of CD11b, F4/80, CD14 and CD68, while
L49:Mouse ES cells were differentiated into monocytes as previously described 8 . To form EB, ES cells were seeded at 6 × 10 5  cells/9 cm bacteriological dish (90 mm Sterilin 101Vr20 triple vent) in 20 ml of macrophage differentiation medium (MDM) for 6-8 days. MDM is similar to complete Glucose Minimal Essential Medium (GMEM; Gibco) with the exception that the differentiation inhibitor Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (LIF) was excluded from the medium and the medium was supplemented with 15% L929 conditioned medium and 1 ng/ml IL-3 (RnD). To obtained conditioned medium, L929 fibroblasts were cultured in Dulbecco's minimal essential medium (DMEM) (Sigma) supplemented with 10% FBS (Sigma), 2 mM glutamine and 1% penicillin/streptomycin (Sigma). Three days after they had reached confluence, conditioned medium was harvested from adherent L929 cells, filtered through a 0.22 μm membrane and stored in aliquots at −20°C. Six to 8 days old EB were transferred onto gelatin-treated tissue culture dishes (100 mm TC treated corning 430167, 150 mm TC treated Corning 430599). Starting on day 4, after transfer, supernatants of adherent EB containing floating macrophage progenitors were collected and plated onto bacteriological low adherence dishes; medium was re-added to the adherent EB plates and the process repeated every 2 days.
L51:Macrophage progenitors from the supernatant of adherent EB dishes, after plating onto bacteriological low adherence dishes, were cultured for up to 7 days to form an adherent macrophage monolayer on a 10 cm bacteriological dish with 20 ml of RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 2 mM glutamine, 10% heat-inactivated FBS and 15% L929 conditioned medium. The adherent ESDMs were harvested by adding lidocaine solution (4 mg/ml lidocaine-HCl containing 5 mM EDTA in Dulbecco's phosphate-buffered saline and gentle scraping using a Cell Lifter.
L53:Mice (129 line, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute) of 5–10 weeks old were sacrificed by cervical dislocation. The care and use of mice were in accordance with the UK Home Office regulations (UK Animals Scientific Procedures Act 1986). Bone marrow was obtained by flushing the tibia and femurs with PBS. The cells were centrifuged at 1,100 rpm for 5 min, at 4°C and the resultant pellet re-suspended with RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 15% L929 conditioned medium, 10% heat-inactivated FBS, 2 mM glutamine and 1% penicillin/streptomycin and transferred to a Petri dish. The macrophage progenitors were cultured for a week to allow the cells to attach and divide until there was a confluent monolayer of macrophages on the dish.
[177ms]
