L99:On the basis of  in-vivo  experiments in lethally irradiated mice, it was studied whether MuMac-E8 cells are able to reconstitute the hematopoietic system in mice. The analysis of the blood cell profile in terms of existing white blood cell count showed a strong decrease of leukocytes during the course of the experiment. Accordingly, MuMac-E8 cells in applied cell numbers were not able to reconstitute the hematopoietic system in mice. However, it can be assumed that this is not a methodological error. At the same time the repopulation of hematopoietic cells is possible by transplantation of bone marrow and bone-marrow derived hematopoietic stem cells  [13] – [17] . Only at the mRNA level these cells revealed some stem cell properties, but they did not show any  in-vivo  differentiation potential to hematopoietic cells. Hence, this data let conclude, that the cell line characterized in this work represents a new monocyte/macrophage or monocyte/macrophage precursor cell line rather than a stem cell line, which is less adherent than other cell lines derived from macrophages. For the first time, these cells could be clearly characterized by real-time RT-PCR and colony-forming cell assays. Transplantation into lethally irradiated triple-transgenic mice revealed no reconstruction of the hematopoietic system indicating that this cell line has no pluripotent capacity, suggesting also a differentiated myeloid rather than a stem cell phenotype of this cell line.
L102:It can be concluded that the MuMac-E8 cell line has the potential to differentiate into macrophages based on the immunophenotype, the phagocytic potential and NO producing capacity of the MuMac-E8 cells. Macrophages, dendritic cells and granulocytes can arise from a common myeloid precursor through different stimulation protocols  [42] . However, neither GM-CSF nor IL-4 was added to the cell culture of MuMac-E8 cells. Because myeloid cells can show a high plasticity among which macrophages  [43] – [50] , it should be investigated whether addition of different stimuli, e.g. IL-4, GM-CSF, M-CSF or tumor-conditioned medium  [6]  to the MuMac-E8 cell line gives rise to distinct cell types.
L134:13 Fricke S ,  Ackermann M ,  Stolzing A ,  Schimmelpfennig C ,  Hilger N ,  et al  ( 2009 )  Allogeneic non-adherent bone marrow cells facilitate hematopoietic recovery but do not lead to allogeneic engraftment .  PLoS One 
L136:14 Fricke S ,  Fricke C ,  Oelkrug C ,  Hilger N ,  Schonfelder U ,  et al  ( 2010 )  Characterization of murine non-adherent bone marrow cells leading to recovery of endogenous hematopoiesis .  Cell Mol Life Sci 
L140:16 Fricke S ,  Rothe K ,  Hilger N ,  Ackermann M ,  Oelkrug C ,  et al  ( 2012 )  Allogeneic bone marrow grafts with high levels of CD4(+) CD25(+) FoxP3(+) T cells can lead to engraftment failure .  Cytometry A 
L174:33 Gang EJ ,  Bosnakovski D ,  Figueiredo CA ,  Visser JW ,  Perlingeiro RC  ( 2007 )  SSEA-4 identifies mesenchymal stem cells from bone marrow .  Blood 
L182:37 Spangrude GJ ,  Brooks DM  ( 1993 )  Mouse strain variability in the expression of the hematopoietic stem cell antigen Ly-6A/E by bone marrow cells .  Blood 
L192:42 Inaba K ,  Inaba M ,  Deguchi M ,  Hagi K ,  Yasumizu R ,  et al  ( 1993 )  Granulocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells arise from a common major histocompatibility complex class II-negative progenitor in mouse bone marrow .  Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
[30ms]
