L8:Macrophages play an essential role in the early immune response to  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  and are the cell type preferentially infected  in vivo . Primary macrophages and macrophage-like cell lines are commonly used as infection models, although the physiological relevance of cell lines, particularly for host-pathogen interaction studies, is debatable. Here we use high-throughput RNA-sequencing to analyse transcriptome dynamics of two macrophage models in response to  M. tuberculosis  infection. Specifically, we study the early response of bone marrow-derived mouse macrophages and cell line J774 to infection with live and γ-irradiated (killed)  M. tuberculosis . We show that infection with live bacilli specifically alters the expression of host genes such as  Rsad2, Ifit1/2/3  and  Rig-I , whose potential roles in resistance to  M. tuberculosis  infection have not yet been investigated. In addition, the response of primary macrophages is faster and more intense than that of J774 cells in terms of number of differentially expressed genes and magnitude of induction/repression. Our results point to potentially novel processes leading to immune containment early during  M. tuberculosis  infection, and support the idea that important differences exist between primary macrophages and cell lines, which should be taken into account when choosing a macrophage model to study host-pathogen interactions.
L43:In conclusion, comparison of the response of bone marrow-derived primary macrophages and the macrophage-like cell line J774 has highlighted differences in the timing and strength of the response. These differences should be taken into account when using a macrophage model for the study of host-pathogen interactions. Furthermore, the use of high-throughput RNA-seq has allowed delineation of the macrophage transcriptomic response to  M. tuberculosis  infection in great depth, identifying genes whose function in resistance to  M. tuberculosis  infection has not yet been investigated. These findings point to potentially novel processes leading to immune containment early in the infection.
L48:Animal protocols were performed in accordance with the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act of 1986 and were approved by the animal welfare and ethical review board of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Bone marrow cells were flushed from the femur and tibia of 8 to 10 week old female C57BL/6 mice and differentiated into macrophages for 7 days in DMEM (Sigma) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Biosera) and 20 ng/ml M-CSF (PeproTech). On day 4, cells were fed with an additional 10 ml of media. After 7 days in culture, cells were washed with DPBS and 5 × 10 6  cells were seeded into 25 cm 2  tissue culture flasks.
L50:Mid-log phase  M. tuberculosis  were washed twice with PBS-T, once with DPBS, diluted in DMEM and added to either BMDMs or J774 cells at a concentration of ∼2.5 × 10 7  CFU/flask (MOI of 5). After 4 h of infection at 37 °C in 5% CO 2 , macrophages were treated with 200 mg/l amikacin for 1 h and washed twice with DPBS to eliminate any extracellular bacteria. Lastly, 6 ml of complete DMEM (J774), or DMEM supplemented with 10 ng/ml M-CSF (BMDMs), was added to each flask. Cells were either immediately processed or incubated for further 20 hours. Infections were done in triplicate.
[129ms]
