L11:Although the phenotypic diversity of macrophages cannot be reconstituted  in vitro , cultured cells grown under well-defined conditions are important for studying the molecular mechanisms involved in host-pathogen interaction. The THP-1 human monocytic cell line has been widely used as a model to study human monocyte and macrophage biology and function [ 7 – 9 ]. The differentiation of THP-1 monocytes into macrophage-like cells can be induced by phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), 1 α, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (vD3), or macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF). PMA-stimulated differentiation is generally preferred for generation of cells with similarities to human peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) monocyte-derived macrophages [ 7 ]. Differentiated cells are adherent, have lower rates of proliferation, are more phagocytic, and generally have increased cell surface expression of CD11b and CD14 [ 9 – 11 ]. The conditions used to differentiate THP-1 cells are highly variable with PMA concentrations ranging from 10 to 400 ng/mL and the duration of treatment ranging from 1–5 days of continuous stimulation, which may be followed by at least 1 day of rest. [ 11 – 19 ]. Since small differences in culture conditions can affect the maturation of THP-1 cells [ 15 , 19 ], it is important to determine the most appropriate conditions for differentiation when using these cells as a model.
L28:Our goal is to use PMA differentiated THP-1 cells as a model for human monocyte derived macrophages. Therefore, we next directly compared  Salmonella  infection in THP-1 cells, differentiated with 20 ng/mL PMA for 3 days, with primary human monocyte derived macrophages (MDMs) differentiated in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) for 7 days. These conditions have previously been used in our laboratory to generate non-activated human macrophages, which, when infected with  Salmonella  Typhimurium produce TNFα, IL-1B, IL-8 and IL-10 and support modest bacterial replication [ 6 ]. Using the gentamicin protection assay to assess the numbers of viable intracellular bacteria, we found that the numbers of intracellular bacteria decreased steadily between 1 h and 24 h pi in both THP-1 macrophages and human MDMs ( Fig 6A ). Non-activated human macrophages respond to infection with  Salmonella  by secreting cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-12, and chemokines including IL-8 (CXCL8) [ 6 ]. Here we found that these cytokines were secreted at similar levels from infected THP-1 cells and human MDMs. TNF-α and IL-8 secretion could be detected at 6 h pi and IL-12p40 was increased at 24 h pi. Intracellular trafficking of  Salmonella  through the endocytic pathway and acquisition of the late endosomal marker LAMP1 is another measure of  Salmonella  maturation during MDM infection. Comparison of LAMP1 acquisition kinetics for MDMs and THP1 cells, both those differentiated at 200 ng/mL and 20 ng/mL PMA, confirmed that vacuolar trafficking was similar between cell types.
L29:Fig 6 Salmonella  are killed by THP1 cells and primary human macrophage cells. (A) Intracellular  Salmonella  in THP-1 cells differentiated for 3 days in the presence of 20 ng/mL PMA (open circles) or primary human monocyte derived macrophages (MDMs, closed circles) differentiated for 7 days in the presence of 100 ng/mL MCSF. Growth normalized to 1 h pi. Data are means ± SD from three independent experiments. (B) Cytokine expression as measured by ELISA for TNF-α, IL-8, and IL-12p40 in THP-1 cells (white bar) and human macrophages (black bars) in uninfected and  Salmonella -infected cells at 6 and 24 h pi. Representative plots from three independent experiments. Statistical significance was determined as compared to the uninfected control for each strain using an unpaired  t -test. (C) Representative maximum intensity projection images of  Salmonella  (red) infected MDMs and THP-1 cells differentiated in the presence of either 200 ng/mL PMA (2 day and 5 day) or 20 ng/mL PMA (3 day) at 1 h pi and stained for LAMP1 (green). Scale bars are 15μm and 5uM (insert). (D) Quantification of LAMP1 positive  Salmonella  in MDMs (red circles) and THP1 cells differentiated for 2 days (open circles), 3 days (grey squares), and 5 days (closed circles). Data are means ± SD from three independent experiments.
L39:THP-1 cells were obtained from ATCC (American Type Culture Collection: TIB-202) and grown in suspension in RPMI +Glutamax supplemented with 10% (v/v) FBS in a humidified 37°C, 5% CO 2  incubator. All cell culture reagents were from Life Technologies, unless otherwise stated. Low passage (passage 15 or less) cells were plated in either 8-chamber Ibidi dishes (Ibidi) or 24-well tissue culture treated plates (Costar) in the presence of phorbol 12-myristiate-12 acetate (PMA, Sigma-Aldrich). For cells plated 5 days prior to infection, PMA was removed after 2 days of treatment. Primary human monocytes were isolated using negative selection (Dynabeads Untouched Human Monocyte Isolation Kit, Life Technologies) from apharesed whole blood from healthy donors and plated in 8-well Ibidi dishes 7 days prior to infection in RPMI supplemented with 5% (v/v) Male AB human serum (Sigma), 2 mM L-glutamine (Cellgro), 1 mM NaPyruvate (Cellgro), 1X MEM NEAA, 1 mM Hepes and 100 ng/mL macrophage colony-stimulating factor (MCSF) (Peprotech). Media was refreshed on day 3 and day 5.  Salmonella enterica  serovar Typhimurium SL1344 wild type [ 29 ] and constitutively expressing mCherry [ 30 , 31 ] have been previously described.
[46ms]
