L14:Macrophages (Mø) are heterogeneous and multifunctional cells that are indispensable for the development and regeneration of tissues and organs, and also assist in the removal of pathogens invading the body. In adults, Mø are largely divided into two types: (1) resident Mø, which colonise tissues/organs at a steady state and perform tissue/organ-specific functions to maintain tissue homeostasis, and (2) recruited Mø or bone-marrow derived Mø, which differentiate from circulating monocytes in the blood infiltrating lesions in response to damage of tissues/organs. Resident Mø in adults were previously considered to originate from the bone marrow-derived monocytes that are gradually replaced by monocyte-derived Mø, which undergo tissue/organ-specific differentiation. Thus, resident Mø were regarded as the terminally differentiated cells that did not proliferate locally in colonising tissues in a steady state. However, evidence accumulated in the past decade has provided new insight into the origins of resident Mø, revealing that Mø in the yolk sac and/or foetal monocytes in the liver migrate to diverse tissues/organs during embryonic development, colonise, and undergo tissue/organ-specific differentiation into resident Mø locally. Moreover, most resident Mø persist into adulthood by self-maintenance of local proliferation processes in a steady state, independent of any input from bone marrow-derived monocytes, except for those colonising the intestines and dermis [ 1 – 5 ]. Furthermore, the cytokines that promote the self-renewing proliferation of resident Mø in the steady 
L15:In vitro methods are now well established for the collection of monocytes from the blood, bone marrow, and spleen; their temporary propagation and differentiation into Mø; and the activation/polarisation of adult monocyte-derived Mø. Standardised experimental guidelines for activation of classical (M1) and alternative (M2) monocyte-derived Mø states have also been developed [ 8 ], as these polarisations are key responses and factors that determine lesion development, progression, and regression in diverse diseases [ 9 ,  10 ]. Moreover, isolation methods have been established for resident Mø from several organs such as the brain (microglia), liver (Kupffer cells), and lung (alveolar Mø). It is also now possible to culture and temporarily proliferate a few of these resident Mø from the respective organs, including microglia [ 11 – 13 ] and Kupffer cells [ 14 ]. Specifically, proliferated microglia and Kupffer cells appear as low-adhesive round cells in primary co-culture with organ-specific stromal cells and can thus be collected as floating cells by relatively simple physical separation methods such as shaking or tapping. However, the total number of cells that can be obtained with these methods is limited owing to their inadequate proliferation and separation in primary culture. Thus, ex vivo methods are still primarily used for studies of both resident and recruited Mø, such as those aiming to examine their behaviours in lesions, including Mø polarisations. However, it is difficult to clearly distinguish between resident and recruited Mø in lesions because they share 
L20:Mø derived from the mouse liver, spleen, lung, and brain showed high propagation when co-cultured with stromal cells of the respective organs in standard culture media [Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (DMEM) for the liver, spleen, and lung, and DMEM/F12 for the brain] including 10% foetal bovine serum (FBS) without any additional growth factors for Mø such as CSF-1 and CSF-2. By changing the culture media every 4–6 days, primary stromal cells, including Mø, reached over-confluence usually within 2–3 weeks for liver, spleen, and lung cells, and within 3–4 weeks for brain cells. The over-confluent cells formed a multi-layered structure on a standard tissue culture dish. The cells were then subcultured until reaching over-confluence again, which occurred within a similar period of time. The cells were considered to be Mø (designated as cMø) according to observations of their propagation behaviours by microscopy, which were similar among the cells cultured from the four organs (Fig.  1 a–d). Within ten days after seeding, there were three morphological types of cMø apparent on the dish: flat cells with a few long processes adhering to large stromal cells, elongated cells with a few long processes adhering directly to the dish surface in a relatively low cell density area, and round or fusiform cells in a densely populated area on the dish surface (Fig.  1 b, c). Two to three weeks after the subculture, when stromal cells became over-confluent, there were two morphological types of cMø observed in multi-layered cells: round, small cells located in the top layer, adhering 
L33:The identity of the Mø segregated from subcultured liver, spleen, lung, and brain stromal cells was further confirmed based on the expression of Mø markers using flow cytometry: integrin αM subunit (CD11b), integrin αX subunit (CD11c), scavenger receptor class D (CD68), CD86 (B7–2), CSF-1R (CD115), CSF-2R (CD116), Siglec-1 (CD169), C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CD184), and C-type mannose receptor 1 (CD206), EGF-like module-containing mucin-like hormone receptor-like 1 (F4/80), and major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC II). The liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø consisted of a single population based on histograms of the marker expression distribution (Figs.  3 ,  4 ,  5 ,  6 ): all histograms showed a single peak except for those of CD11c, which included both CD11c-positive and -negative fractions. Moreover, the respective Mø showed similar expression patterns of these molecules, and the patterns were quite similar between the liver and spleen Mø. As a whole, all Mø showed high expression of CD11b, CD68, CD169, and CD206; substantial or high expression of CD86, CD115, CD184, and F4/80, except for faint expression of CD86, CD115, and CD184 in the brain Mø; and faint or almost negative expression of CD116 and MHC II. These expression analyses clearly confirmed that the cells segregated from the co-culture of all four organs were Mø.
L44:We successfully propagated Mø collected from the mouse liver, spleen, lung, and brain after co-culture with stromal cells of the respective organs followed by subculture in standard culture media without any additional growth factors. These Mø were isolated from stromal cells according to their adhesive property to bacteriological Petri dishes. These propagated Mø were confirmed to be resident Mø since the organs they were obtained from were first perfused with Hanks’ balanced salt solution (HBSS) including heparin to remove as much blood as possible so as to avoid contamination of blood monocytes in the cultures. Indeed, the four propagated Mø clearly expressed the general resident Mø marker F4/80, which is usually expressed at relatively high levels in resident Mø with reduced levels in adult monocyte-derived Mø [ 5 ]. The propagated liver Mø were likely derived from Kupffer cells because no other resident Mø colonise the liver at such a large population. The spleen Mø were likely red pulp Mø because F4/80 is a marker for red pulp Mø but not for other resident Mø (i.e. marginal zone Mø, metallophilic Mø, tingible Mø) in the spleen [ 15 ,  21 ]. Alveolar Mø are shown to be F4/80 low/+  and CD11b −/low  cells, while lung interstitial Mø are shown to be F4/80 +  and CD11b +  cells [ 15 ,  22 ,  23 ]. We removed the alveolar Mø from the lung by bronchoalveolar lavage before collecting cells for Mø propagation, and the lung Mø were clearly F4/80- and CD11b-positive. A recent study by genetic lineage tracing revealed that lung interstitial Mø were derived from both foetal M
L45:The successful propagation of four different Mø in vitro may further indirectly demonstrate the local proliferation property of resident Mø by self-renewal at steady state in vivo. Moreover, we found that all four Mø did not substantially propagate in bacteriological Petri dishes during the isolation process, where most of the Mø did not come into contact with cell aggregates consisting of stromal cells. This indicates that stromal cells of the respective organs might be indispensable for proliferation of the resident Mø, and that contact of the stromal cells with the resident Mø is possibly related to the production of cytokines such as CSF-1 and CSF-2, which promote the proliferation of resident Mø. This presumption is partly supported by the flow cytometry results. CSF-1 receptor (CD115) was clearly expressed in the liver, spleen, and lung Mø, but weakly/faintly expressed in the brain Mø, whereas CSF-2 receptor (CD116) expression was faint in the liver and brain. Further in vitro studies are required to examine the relation of contact of the stromal cells with the Mø to the production of those cytokines promoting the Mø proliferation. We speculated that co-cultures of Mø with organ-specific stromal cells likely mimic the niches for resident Mø in vivo, except for the co-culture of the brain cells since the propagation of brain Mø clearly decreased in the subculture after more than three passages. Stromal cells of the respective organs might exert an influence on the expression patterns of the Mø markers, as observed by flow cytometry, which were subtly different amon
L65:6. Becher Burkhard Tugues Sonia Greter Melanie GM-CSF: From Growth Factor to Central Mediator of Tissue Inflammation Immunity 2016 45 5 963 973 10.1016/j.immuni.2016.10.026 27851925
L76:17. Mia S. Warnecke A. Zhang X.-M. Malmström V. Harris R. A. An optimized Protocol for Human M2 Macrophages using M-CSF and IL-4/IL-10/TGF-βYields a Dominant Immunosuppressive Phenotype Scandinavian Journal of Immunology 2014 79 5 305 314 10.1111/sji.12162 24521472
L90:31. Chitu Violeta Gokhan Şölen Nandi Sayan Mehler Mark F. Stanley E. Richard Emerging Roles for CSF-1 Receptor and its Ligands in the Nervous System Trends in Neurosciences 2016 39 6 378 393 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.005 27083478
[86ms]
