L8:Macrophages play critical roles in immunity, development, tissue repair, and cancer, but studies of their function have been hampered by poorly-differentiated tumor cell lines and genetically-intractable primary cells. Here we report a facile system for genome editing in non-transformed macrophages by differentiating ER-Hoxb8 myeloid progenitors from Cas9-expressing transgenic mice. These conditionally immortalized macrophages (CIMs) retain characteristics of primary macrophages derived from the bone marrow yet allow for easy genetic manipulation and a virtually unlimited supply of cells. We demonstrate the utility of this system for dissection of host genetics during intracellular bacterial infection using two important human pathogens:  Listeria monocytogenes  and  Mycobacterium tuberculosis .
L14:Bone marrow derived macrophages (BMMs) were generated from the femurs and tibias from wild-type C57BL/6 (The Jackson Laboratory) mice that were 8–12 weeks old. Conditionally-immortalized macrophages (CIMs) were derived from bone marrow cells from a 5-FU treated male Cas9 +  mouse ( Platt et al., 2014 ). Hoxb8 immortalized cells were generated as previously described ( Wang et al., 2006 ) with the modification that progenitors in bone marrow were enriched by negative depletion; cells expressing CD11b, Ter119, B220, CD5, CD19, and Gr-1 were depleted using biotinylated antibodies and streptavidin coated dynabeads. For re-selection of CIM progenitors, cells were cultured in 10 mg/ml G418 for 7 days. All mice were housed in specific-pathogen free conditions and treated using procedures described in animal care protocols approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of UC Berkeley.
L15:Progenitor CIMs prior to differentiation were maintained in RPMI (Gibco) supplemented with 10% FBS, 2% GM-CSF supernatant produced by a B16 murine melanoma cell line, 2 mM L-glutamine, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 10 mM HEPES, 43 uM β-mercaptoethanol, and 2 uM β-estradiol (Sigma #E2758). Progenitor CIMs were maintained in suspension in non-treated tissue culture treated flasks at densities below 500,000 cells/ml before removal of β-estradiol and differentiation. BMMs and differentiated CIM macrophages were cultured in macrophage media: DMEM (Gibco) supplemented with 10% FBS, 10% M-CSF supernatant produced by 3T3-MCSF cells as previously described, 2 mM L-glutamine (Gibco), and 1 mM sodium pyruvate (Gibco). RAW 264.7 cells were cultured in DMEM (Gibco) supplemented with 10% FBS, 2 mM L-glutamine (Gibco), and 20 mM HEPES. To differentiate progenitor CIMs into macrophages, cells were washed twice in PBS + 1% FBS to fully remove β-estradiol, resuspended in complete macrophage media, and seeded onto non-treated 15 cm tissue culture plates at 5.0 × 10 6  cells/plate in 20 ml of media. Differentiating CIM macrophages were given an additional 10 ml of macrophage media on days 3 and 6 post-differentiation, and terminal assays were performed at day 9 or 10 post-differentiation.
[87ms]
