===== PMC10104118 =====
L36:An important function of AMs is to regulate lipid metabolism, including degradation of lipid-rich surfactant to maintain proper lung function ( 30 ,  31 ). The lung alveolar space is rich in surfactant proteins and lipids, and has low levels of glucose ( 32 ,  33 ), an environment that may be conducive to the known low immunoreactivity of AMs, representing an adaptation to their specific environment. AMs engage in OxPhos over glycolysis as their core source of ATP ( 34 ), a finding in both human and murine cellular studies. Patients suffering from sepsis endure a shift from OxPhos to aerobic glycolysis, which is reversed upon patient recovery ( 35 ).  In vitro  studies established that LPS-stimulated inflammatory macrophages typically depend on glycolysis and alternatively activated M2 macrophages use OxPhos to generate energy ( 36 ). It is also well-known that IL-10 suppresses glycolysis in LPS-activated wild-type bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) ( 37 ). Conversion from OxP
===== PMC10689348 =====
L36:Generation of bone marrow-derived macrophages
L37:Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were prepared as described previously ( 17 ). In brief, bone marrow cells were aseptically isolated from mouse femora and cultured (5 × 10 5  cells per ml) in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (DMEM) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and 2 ng ml −1  macrophage colony-stimulating factor (Peprotech, Rocky Hill, NJ, USA) in a temperature-responsive 60-mm culture dish (RepCell, CellSeed, Tokyo, Japan); cells were incubated at 37°C in humidified 5% CO 2  for 6–10 days for differentiation into macrophages. During this differentiation period, half of the volume of the spent culture medium was replaced with fresh medium every 3 days. When the differentiated macrophages in the plate reached confluency, they were harvested and redistributed (5 × 10 5  cells per ml) onto a 35-mm dish (μ-Dish, ibidi, Grafelfing, Germany) appropriate for high-end microscopic observation.
L41:For the observation for the intracellular bacterial colonization of BMDMs, bacteria ( S. maltophilia  strain 13636,  smlt2713 -deficient mutant or 31559 or  E. coli  K12) were added to the BMDM culture at a multiplicity of infection of 50 and then incubated at 37°C for 2 h. In some experiments regarding the examination for the role of exogenous IL-10 in the maintenance of microbial colonization, murine recombinant IL-10 (5 ng ml −1 , BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA) was added to the BMDM culture 16 h before the microbial infection. Extracellular bacteria were thoroughly washed away by using PBS, and BMDMs were incubated for another 4 h in DMEM supplemented with 100 μg ml −1  gentamicin (Fujifilm Wako, Osaka, Japan). The dish was then washed three times by using PBS, after which cells were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS containing 3.5% sucrose for 15 min at room temperature, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100 (Nakalai Tesques) in PBS for 10 min and then incubated with DAPI (I
L43:For electron microscopic observation, BMDMs infected with bacteria were processed  in situ  for fixation, dehydration and embedding in the culture dish. The microbe-infected BMDMs were prefixed with 2% glutaraldehyde in 0.1 M PBS (pH 7.4) for 60 min at 4°C and then post-fixed with 1% osmium dissolved in 0.1 M PBS for 60 min at 4°C. After dehydration through graded ethanol, cells were embedded in Epon 812 resin (TAAB Laboratories Equipment, Aldermaston, UK). After polymerization, the hardened resin layer containing the embedded BMDMs was separated from the culture dish. Under a light microscope, a representative area was selected, trimmed and glued to a resin stub for sectioning. Ultrathin sections were cut by using a diamond knife, collected on single-hole grids and stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate. Cells of interest were viewed under a transmission electron microscope (JEM-1230S, JEOL, Tokyo, Japan) at 80 kV.
L45:The oxygen consumption rate was examined by using an XF24 Extracellular Flux Analyzer (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA, USA). BMDMs (5 × 10 4  cells) were seeded into each well of an XF24 cell-culture microplate.  Stenotrophomonas maltophilia  strains 13636 and 31559 were added to the BMDM culture at a multiplicity of infection of 10, and then incubated at 37°C for 2 h. Extracellular bacteria were thoroughly washed away by using PBS, and the BMDMs were incubated in DMEM supplemented with 100 μg ml −1  gentamicin (Fujifilm Wako) for 4 h. After incubation, the XF24 cell culture plate was rinsed gently with PBS and pre-equilibrated for 1 h in unbuffered DMEM supplemented with 25 mM glucose. Compounds injected during the assay and their final concentrations were 1.5 μM oligomycin (inhibitor of ATP synthase), 1 μM FCCP (proton-uncoupling agent) and 0.5 μM rotenone + 0.5 μM antimycin A (inhibitors of the mitochondrial respiration complex). XFe Wave software (Seahorse Bioscience, No
L47:Cytokine release into the culture supernatants of BMDMs was measured through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) by using DuoSet ELISA Development System (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN, USA) according to the manufacturer’s protocols.
L51:BMDMs were cultured in 12-well culture plates (1 × 10 6  cells per well).  Stenotrophomonas maltophilia  strain 13636 or the  smlt2713 -deficient  S. maltophilia  mutant was added to the BMDM cultures at a multiplicity of infection of 10 and then incubated at 37°C for 2 h. After infection, extracellular bacteria were thoroughly washed away by using PBS, and the BMDMs were incubated for additional times (2, 48 or 96 h) in DMEM supplemented with 100 μg ml −1  gentamicin (Fujifilm Wako). After the appropriate time, the infected BMDMs were lysed in sterile distilled water and serial dilutions of the lysates were plated on selective agar plates (phenol red-based medium containing 1% maltose and 32 mg l −1  imipenem) ( 17 ) and cultured at 30°C for 24 h. The numbers of viable intracellular  S. maltophilia  were determined.
L61:We next used an  in vitro  assay to examine the morphologic characteristics of  S. maltophilia -harboring cells. To this end, we prepared BMDMs and cultured them with the clinically isolated  S. maltophilia  strain 13636 or the environmentally isolated  S. maltophilia  strain 31559. As a control microbe, we used  E. coli  strain K12 derivative RIMD0509006. Of these three strains, only  S. maltophilia  strain 13636 was able to enter BMDMs ( Fig. 2A ). In addition, transmission electron microscopic analysis confirmed the internalization of  S. maltophilia  strain 13636 within both the endosomal and cytosolic compartments of BMDMs ( Fig. 2B ).
===== PMC10874407 =====
L45:The BMSC antimicrobial properties were studied by an in vitro  E. coli  proliferation assay as described earlier 28  using conditioned medium from human or mouse BMSCs (comparing WT vs. Hamp KO). Filtered BMSC supernatants were added to  E. coli  suspended in LB medium in a 1:1 ratio, aliquoted in 96-well microplates, and cultured for 16 h. Bacterial growth was assessed by measuring optical density at 600 nm. In studies of human BMSCs, mouse monoclonal and rabbit polyclonal anti-hepcidin antibodies (affinity purified) were used to block the action of hepcidin. Mouse and a rabbit IgGs (Jackson Chrompure: ammonium sulfate precipitation plus gel filtration) served as isotype controls in all experiments. In some experiments using human BMSCs, hepcidin expression was boosted by the addition of 10 ng/mL human IL-6 for 9 h. Supernatants without washing were removed and exposed to  E. coli  to measure bacterial growth. Control samples (without BMSCs) showed that the presence of IL-6 did no
===== PMC10893549 =====
L1:Comparative Study of  Mycobacterium bovis  and  Mycobacterium avium  subsp.  paratuberculosis  In Vitro Infection in Bovine Bone Marrow Derived Macrophages: Preliminary Results
L277: Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophage Production J Vis Exp. 2013 81 e50966 10.3791/50966
===== PMC11054941 =====
L26:The 3T3 and mMSCs were seeded at a density of 5 × 10 4  cells/cm2 and cultured in exosome-depleted media for 48 h. After the incubation period, the conditioned media were collected and subjected to a series of centrifugation steps to remove cells, cell debris, and large vesicles. These steps included an initial centrifugation at 300×  g  for 10 min, followed by 2000×  g  for 20 min, and then 10,000×  g  for 30 min at 4 °C. The resulting supernatants were then ultracentrifuged at 100,000×  g  for 70 min at 4 °C to pellet the exosomes. The exosome pellet was subsequently washed in PBS and underwent another round of ultracentrifugation at 100,000×  g  for 70 min at 4 °C.
L36:Total cell numbers were determined using a cell counter (Jimbio, Changzhou, Jiangsu, China) by analyzing the BAL cell pellet prior to flow cytometry, following the manufacturer’s instructions. The surface markers of M1 or M2 macrophages from BAL and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were also measured using CD80 (B7-1) monoclonal antibody (16-10A1) (11-0801-81, Clone:16-10A1; eBioscience) and CD206 (MMR) monoclonal antibody (MR6F3) (17-2061-80, Clone:MR6F3; eBioscience). Isotype and secondary-only controls were used to control potential nonspecific staining due to Fc–receptor interactions. Data analysis was conducted using FACSCanto II (Beckman Biosciences, Brea, CA, USA) and FlowJo 10 software (Tree Star, Ashland, OR, USA). Further analyses were performed using CytoFLEX (Beckman Biosciences) and FlowJo 7.6 software (Tree Star, Ashland, OR, USA).
L49:The size and morphology of the mMSC-exos were confirmed through TEM analysis ( Figure 1 C). Size distribution histograms were generated from 24 h serum-free conditioned media ( Figure 1 D). Immunoblot analyses confirmed the expression of exosome core markers CD63, Alix, and TSG 101 ( Figure 1 E). These findings demonstrate that all mMSC populations produce and release EVs with typical exosome characteristics.
L77:Figure 8 mMSC-exos inhibit NF-κB and NLRP3 signaling pathways in MCMV-infected BMDMs. ( A ) Immunoblot analysis of NF-κB, pNF-κB, NLRP3, ASC, pro-caspase-1, and caspase-1. ( B ) Proteins levels were calculated based on the signal intensities of the protein bands. ( C ) Representative images for NLRP3/ASC/DAPI immunofluorescence staining in the BMDMs were shown (NLRP3 = red, ASC = green, DAPI = blue); Scale bars: 200 μm. ( D ) Quantitative analysis of NLRP3 and ASC positive areas in the BMDMs. The integrated optical density values obtained from image J software were used to assess the expression of NLRP3 and ASC in the macrophages. Multiple group comparisons: one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s post hoc test. Data are reported as mean ± SEM,  n  = 4. *  p  < 0.05, **  p  < 0.01, ***  p  < 0.001, ****  p  < 0.0001 compared to MCMV group.
===== PMC11086728 =====
L204: Human cord blood-derived endothelial progenitor cells and their conditioned media exhibit therapeutic equivalence for diabetic wound healing .  Cell Transplant
===== PMC11144798 =====
L1:Protocol for extracting and isolating porcine bone-marrow-derived macrophages from ribs
L6:Due to anatomical and biological similarities with humans, pigs are increasingly used for inflammation- and immune-related studies in biomedical research, including the field of osteonecrosis and osteoimmunology. Here, we present a protocol for rib extraction, isolation of the bone marrow by centrifugation, and processing to obtain bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). Then, we describe the procedures of  in vitro  experiments to evaluate the cell phenotype.
L11:The protocol below describes the specific steps to obtain BMDM from porcine ribs. We use porcine BMDMs to investigate the effects of necrotic bone on macrophages as we previously found that necrotic bone from a porcine model of ischemic osteonecrosis of the femoral head stimulates macrophage-inflammatory responses through Toll-like receptor 4. 2  Moreover, damage associated molecular patterns from necrotic femoral heads of a porcine model of ischemic osteonecrosis inhibit osteogenesis and promote fibrogenesis. 3  The BMDMs isolated from the protocol are used to further investigate the role of macrophages in immune response and repair process following ischemic osteonecrosis of the femoral head in the porcine model.
L35:BMDM selection, culture, and differentiation
L48:Figure 6 Cell morphology and immunophenotypes of BMDM after 24 h of stimulation (A) Representative optical image of BMDM after four days of culture. The scale bar is 50 μm. (B‒D) FACS plots and MFI analyses of CD14 (B), CD8086 (C), and SWC9 (D) in the groups of Control, M (LPS+IFNγ), M (IL-4+IL-13). The gray plot (B-D, in upper FACS plots) is the unstained group and is used for FACS gating. One-way ANOVA was used for statistical analysis. ∗Indicates  p  < 0.05, and ns indicates no significance ( p  ≥ 0.05).
L49:The BMDM had different sizes and morphologies (round and elongated shapes), as shown in  Figure 6 A. The FACS analyses showed that the BMDM had a high CD14 in all groups, and 98.8% of cells were CD14-positive, indicating a high purity of macrophages ( Figure 6 B). The LPS+IFNγ stimulated macrophages showed an increased CD80/86 population (80.9%) and expression intensity (MFI, 981 ± 91) compared to the non-stimulated macrophages (MFI, 643 ± 83,  p  = 0.0149) and to the M (IL-4+IL13) macrophages (279 ± 90,  p  = 0.0004,  Figure 6 B). On the other hand, the M (IL-4+IL-13) macrophages showed an increased SWC9 population (97.6%) and expression intensity (MFI, 3321 ± 383) compared to the non-stimulated macrophages (MFI, 2167 ± 266,  p  = 0.0011) and to the M (LPS+IFNγ) macrophages (MFI, 958 ± 89,  p  < 0.0001). Figure 6 Cell morphology and immunophenotypes of BMDM after 24 h of stimulation (A) Representative optical image of BMDM after four days of culture. The scale bar is 50 μm. (B‒D) 
L52:The present protocol for porcine BMDM extraction and isolation provides an alternative method to bone marrow cell extraction using needle aspiration or flushing the long bones, which have been described previously. 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12  The number of BM cells obtained by centrifuging the cut pieces of ribs was relatively higher compared to the method obtained from long bones. The number of BM cells obtained was also consistent and reproducible. Furthermore, using the centrifuge extraction method, the amount of time necessary to extract the BM cells was drastically reduced, and dilution of bone marrow cells by flushing with PBS or saline solution was avoided.
L89:5 Kapetanovic R. Fairbairn L. Beraldi D. Sester D.P. Archibald A.L. Tuggle C.K. Hume D.A. Pig bone marrow-derived macrophages resemble human macrophages in their response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide J. Immunol. 188 2012 3382 3394 10.4049/jimmunol.1102649 22393154
===== PMC11253522 =====
L138:53 Larochelle A. Bellavance M.-A. Michaud J.-P. Rivest S. Bone marrow-derived macrophages and the CNS: An update on the use of experimental chimeric mouse models and bone marrow transplantation in neurological disorders Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1862 2016 310 322 10.1016/j.bbadis.2015.09.017 26432480
===== PMC11302253 =====
L1:Francisella tularensis  Live Vaccine Strain training of murine alveolar and bone marrow-derived macrophages
L7:The discovery of non-specific “trained immunity” in monocytes has generated substantial excitement. However, to date, training has been studied with relatively few microbes (e.g.,  Mycobacterium bovis  Bacille Calmette-Guérin, a live attenuated intracellular bacterium used as a vaccine) and microbial substances (e.g., LPS), and it remains unclear whether training during infection is common. We previously demonstrated that vaccination of mice with  Francisella tularensis  Live Vaccine Strain (LVS), another live attenuated intracellular bacterium, protected against challenge with the unrelated bacterium  Listeria monocytogenes . The present study therefore tested whether LVS vaccination engenders trained macrophages that contributed to this protection. To do so, we used a previous  in vitro  co-culture approach with murine bone marrow-derived macrophages to expand and study lung alveolar macrophages. We demonstrated that alveolar macrophages can be productively infected and employed t
L16:In previous studies, we have used an  in vitro  co-culture system to study mechanisms by which immune T cells control the replication of  Francisella  or  M. tuberculosis  within infected macrophages. The relevance of the  in vitro  approach to  in vivo  host-pathogen interactions has been amply demonstrated by its success in predicted vaccine-induced protection of mice and rats challenged  in vivo  ( 18 – 21 ). However, to date, only bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMØs) have been used in this system. Because training can depend on the route of vaccination, here we adapted this  in vitro  co-culture approach to evaluate control of bacterial replication in alveolar macrophages as well. We then used both methods to study the potential roles of myeloid trained immunity in  Francisella  infections and to examine whether LVS administered intradermally (i.d.) or intravenously (i.v.) stimulates trained immunity.
L19:BMMØs from naïve mice and from mice vaccinated with LVS i.d. were infected with LVS, and some LVS-infected BMMØs were co-cultured with naïve or immune splenocytes. After 72 hours, supernatants were recovered, and BMMØs were lysed to determine bacterial CFU. Bacterial uptake at the start of infection (0 hour) and after 72 hours was similar in BMMØs from naïve or vaccinated mice ( Fig. 1A ). LVS bacterial replication was not controlled in either type of BMMØs when co-cultured with naïve splenocytes. In contrast, intramacrophage bacterial replication was significantly controlled by LVS-immune lymphocytes but was comparable when using BMMØs derived from either naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS ( Fig. 1A ).
L20:Fig 1 Bacterial growth and lymphocyte-mediated control of  in vitro  bacterial replication is comparable when using BMMØs from naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS. BMMØs were prepared in 24-well plates from naïve mice or from mice vaccinated with LVS i.d. Confluent macrophages were infected with LVS, and then naïve or immune splenocytes were overlaid on LVS-infected macrophages. Three days later, macrophages were lysed and plated to count recovered CFU/mL (panel A). In panel A, ** denotes a significant difference of  P  < 0.01 by two-tailed Student’s  t -test with equal variance: co-cultures with naïve BMMØs and naïve splenocytes were significantly different from those with naïve BMMØs and splenocytes from i.d. LVS-immune mice; similarly, co-cultures with BMMØs from i.d.-primed mice and naïve splenocytes were significantly different from those with BMMØs from i.d.-primed mice and i.d. LVS-immune splenocytes. Supernatants collected from co-cultures were assessed for levels o
L21:To further assess potential differences between activities of BMMØs from naïve mice and i.d. LVS-vaccinated mice, supernatants collected from all cultures were assessed for levels of nitric oxide (NO) ( Fig. 1B ) and IFN-γ ( Fig. 1C ), both of which regulate intramacrophage bacterial replication. Neither IFN-γ nor NO were detected in supernatants from LVS-infected BMMØs alone. NO levels were similar in supernatants from co-cultures with BMMØs from naïve mice compared to those from i.d. LVS-vaccinated mice. Of note, however, IFN-γ levels were consistently twofold higher in co-cultures with BMMØs from LVS-vaccinated mice ( Fig. 1C ).
L23:As noted, to date, previous studies have utilized rodent bone marrow-derived macrophages to quantitate immune lymphocyte-mediated control of intracellular bacterial growth ( 18 – 23 ). Respiratory exposure is an important route of  Francisella  infection, and tissue resident alveolar macrophages are the first target of infection ( 24 ). Therefore, we evaluated macrophages derived from alveolar lavage, including alveolar macrophages obtained from naïve and mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS. Bacterial uptake and replication over 3 days was similar in AMØs from naïve or i.d. LVS-vaccinated mice ( Fig. 2 ). Notably, uptake and growth of LVS over 3 days was similar between AMØs ( Fig. 2 ) and BMMØs ( Fig. 1 ). Further, naïve splenocytes did not inhibit intramacrophage bacterial replication in either type of macrophages. In contrast, splenocytes from mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS significantly controlled LVS growth within AMØs, and control was comparable when using AMØs derived from either n
L26:Previous studies demonstrated that intravenous BCG vaccination stimulated greater degrees of trained immunity compared to intradermal administration ( 25 – 27 ). We performed experiments of similar design using mice vaccinated with LVS i.v. Similar to results obtained when using lymphocytes from i.d. vaccinated mice, bacterial uptake, bacterial replication, and lymphocyte-mediated control of  in vitro  bacterial replication were all comparable when using BMMØs from naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.v. with LVS. Bacterial replication was not controlled in co-cultures with naïve splenocytes, and immune lymphocyte-mediated control was significant compared to co-cultures with naïve splenocytes ( Fig. 3A ). However, NO production ( Fig. 3B ) as well as IFN-γ levels ( Fig. 3C ) in co-cultures were consistently two fold higher in co-cultures using BMMØs from mice vaccinated with LVS i.v. These observations are similar to that seen for IFN-γ levels in co-cultures with BMMØs from LVS-vaccinat
===== PMC11381776 =====
L1:Protocol for analyzing BCG-induced trained immunity in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages
L5:Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), the only licensed tuberculosis vaccine, provides non-specific protection against non-tuberculosis diseases that is mediated by trained immunity, a functional reprogramming mediated by innate immune memory. Here, we present a protocol for analyzing BCG-induced trained immunity in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). We describe steps for preparing BCG single bacterial suspensions, isolating BMDM cells, and the training process. This protocol can assist researchers to conveniently utilize BMDM cells to study trained immunity.
L32:Preparation and culture of BMDM from mice
L47: 17. Discard the medium, wash the dish with 5 mL of PBS, and add 3 mL of trypsin-EDTA to detach the BMDM cells at 37°C for 5 min. 18. Add 3 mL of cell culture medium to terminate digestion, collect the digested cells with a pipette and centrifuge at 500×  g  for 5 min. 19. Discard the supernatant, resuspend the cells with cell culture medium and counted. 20. Prepare a suspension of 3×10 5  cells per mL in medium containing M-CSF (50 ng/mL). Add 300 μL of cell suspension per well into flat-bottomed 48-well cell culture plate (9 ×10 4  cells/well) and incubate overnight to let the BMDM cells adhere. 
L57:25. Prepare a BCG suspension of 3 × 10 5  CFU per mL in medium containing M-CSF (50 ng/mL) ( Figure 3 A). Figure 3 Cytokine production by BCG-trained BMDM cells upon LPS restimulation (A) Schematic diagram of trained immunity in BMDM cells. (B) Cytokine profiles in control and BCG-trained BMDMs upon LPS restimulation. Unpaired  t  test was used to compare groups: ∗∗∗  P  < 0.001. ∗∗∗∗  P  < 0.0001. Values are expressed as mean ± SD. 26. Take the cell culture plate and discard the cell culture medium. Add 300 μL of BCG suspension per well into flat-bottomed 48-well cell culture plate and incubate at 37°C 5% CO 2  for 24 h. The control group (Con) was added 300 μL of medium containing M-CSF (50 ng/mL).
L72:Herein, we describe the detailed protocol for determining BCG-induced trained immunity using murine BMDM cells. Firstly, the single bacterial suspension preparation protocol improves the reliability and reproductivity of BCG’s stimulation ( Figure 1 ). Then, a standard murine BMDM differentiation method was used to obtain naïve macrophages derived from the bone marrow ( Figure 2 ). As a result, high levels of inflammatory cytokines, which were regarded as surrogates of trained immunity, were detected in BCG-trained BMDM.
L109:9 Toda G. Yamauchi T. Kadowaki T. Ueki K. Preparation and culture of bone marrow-derived macrophages from mice for functional analysis STAR Protoc. 2 2021 100246 10.1016/j.xpro.2020.100246
===== PMC11419857 =====
L12:Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) have been extensively used for the  in vitro  studies of macrophages because they can be propagated and cultured for a longer period. In contrast, the  in vitro/ex vivo  study of the primary AMs is challenging as they need to be freshly isolated every time and cannot be cultured for longer period [ 10 ]. Furthermore, BMDMs cannot accurately represent the AM immune responses that occur during primary lung infection/injury. In particular, BMDMs differ significantly from AMs in their ontogeny (monocyte-derived vs. embryonic-derived), immune response, metabolism, proliferation, and tissue repair abilities [ [11] ,  [12] ].
===== PMC11438345 =====
L396: Abu Kasim NH 2019 Conditioned media derived from mesenchymal stem cell cultures: The next generation for regenerative medicine J Tissue Eng Regen Med 13 569 586 30644175
L457: Shi HB 2019 Hypoxic conditioned medium derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells protects against ischemic stroke in rats J Cell Physiol 234 1354 1368 30076722
===== PMC11734715 =====
L9:Mycobacterium tuberculosis  (MTB) ESX-1, a type VII secretion system, is a key virulence determinant contributing to MTB’s survival within lung mononuclear phagocytes (MNPs), but its effect on MNP recruitment and differentiation remains unknown. Here, using multiple single-cell RNA sequencing techniques, we studied the role of ESX-1 in MNP heterogeneity and response in mice and murine bone marrow–derived macrophages (BMDM). We found that ESX-1 is required for MTB to recruit diverse MNP subsets with high MTB burden. Further, MTB induces a transcriptional signature of immune evasion in lung macrophages and BMDM in an ESX-1–dependent manner. Spatial transcriptomics revealed an up-regulation of permissive features within MTB lesions, where monocyte-derived macrophages concentrate near MTB-infected cells. Together, our findings suggest that MTB ESX-1 facilitates the recruitment and differentiation of MNPs, which MTB can infect and manipulate for survival. Our dataset across various model
L37:Bone marrow–derived macrophages (BMDMs), derived from bone marrow progenitors and differentiated in vitro, have been used as primary cells to study MTB infection. To compare with transcriptional differences identified in vivo, BMDM derived from healthy C57BL/6 mice were infected for 24 hours with MTB expressing dsRed with or without functional ESX-1 through lack of the entire RD1 operon ( Fig. 2A ); colony-forming unit (CFU) was similar in cells infected with both strains (fig. S5A). Live cells were sorted on dsRed expression, multiplexed using lipid-tagged indices (MULTI-seq), and single-cell transcriptomic libraries were produced using 10X chemistry ( Fig. 5A  and fig. S5B) ( 45 ).
L38:Fig. 5. ESX-1 aids in the suppression of the inflammatory response in BMDM. ( A ) BMDM derived from C57BL/6 mice was infected with H37Rv or H37RvΔRD1 expressing dsRed for 24 hours, stained for viability, and flow-sorted on dsRed expression. Cells were multiplexed, and transcriptional libraries were obtained through 10X chemistry. ( B ) Dimension reduction of transcriptional libraries of each condition. ( C ) Heatmap of the top 20 differential gene expressions by log 2  fold change of each comparison: H37Rv or H37RvΔRD1 versus control and H37Rv versus H37RvΔRD1. ( D ) Pathway enrichment of differentially expressed genes of BMDM infected with H37Rv as compared to H37RvΔRD1. ( E ) Comparing differentially expressed genes up or downregulated in ESX-1 active or inactive strains from in vivo (moDerived macrophages) or in vitro (BMDM) ( F ) revealed 12 genes concurrent in differential expression. Each condition was repeated in triplicate, both biologically and technically. FC, fold change
L41:Different environmental factors, cell types, methods of analysis, and time course of infection are but a few factors that have long accounted for the inability to translate findings from cells infected with MTB in vitro to those in vivo. By analyzing scRNA-seq data in our two models when ESX-1 function is lacking, we found that in both lung moDerived macrophage and BMDM, 12 genes were consistently differentially up-regulated in cells infected with H37Rv as compared to strains lacking functional ESX-1 ( Fig. 5, E and F ). Multiple genes up-regulated in both conditions have previously been demonstrated to play key roles in tuberculosis disease [ Apoe  ( 49 )], immune evasion [ Trem2  ( 50 )], inhibition of autophagosome formation [ Coro1a  ( 51 )], biomarker discovery [ C1q  ( 52 ,  53 )], and general IFN-induced or inflammasome induction ( Itm2b  and  Ucp2 ). Three novel genes— Limd2 ,  Ptms , and  Unc93b1 —were also identified to correlate with MTB cellular infection. Together, ESX
L52:The ImmGen reference dataset was insufficient for refined cell identification in our comprehensive atlas, likely due to the complexity of novel cellular states during active infection compared to reference groups under homeostasis. While historical understanding of macrophage responses has relied on a dichotomous view of M1 and M2 ( 62 ), recent data demonstrate a more diverse spectrum ( 35 ,  63 ,  64 ). Our work aligns with this heterogeneity, and we therefore refrained from dichotomizing clusters to avoid oversimplification. Further, these findings extend from prior by showing that after the T cell activation, specific moDerived macrophages accumulate at a higher proportion in the presence of ESX-1. These moDerived macrophages harbor more bacteria and have a higher immune evasion signal compared to AMs, consistent with the previous finding that moDerived cells are MTB permissive during chronic infection ( 12 ). While differential recruitment may partially be explained by an over
L67:BMDM were derived from bone marrow cells cultured in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium (Gibco, 11965092), 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (HI-FBS) and recombinant murine macrophage colony-stimulating factor (20 ng/ml; PeproTech) as described elsewhere ( 6 ). Before infection, cells were washed twice with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Bacterial strains were grown without tween and stored as previously described ( 72 ). Stock was thawed, and any remaining clumps were removed by filtering through a 5-mm filter. Cells were bathed in infection media at a multiplicity of infection of 1 for 4 hours, and washed, and media were replaced. Twenty-four hours after infection, live cells were lifted gently, washed, and stained by Zombie Aqua Fixable Viability Dye (BioLegend, 423101) before flow sorting.
L75:For lung myeloid cells, single cells were sorted as described, washed, and manually counted with trypan blue on a hemocytometer. GEMS (gell beads-in-emulsions) were generated using a 3′ v3.1 kit according to the manufacturer’s protocol on a 10X Genomics Chip A without multiplexing, with each condition loaded on 2 separate lanes. For in vitro BMDM, cells were labeled using the MultiSeq labeling method as detailed further in  https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-019-0433-8  before using a 3′ v3.1 kit and loading. Cleanup and cDNA amplification were done following the manufacturer’s protocol.
L1864:sorting scheme of BMDM infected with H37Rv-dsRed, H37RvΔRD1-dsRed, or uninfected to obtain transcriptional
===== PMC11740880 =====
L71: − ) -mediated inactivation of NO [ 61 ,  62 ]. Glutathione reductase, on the other hand, preserves the pool of reduced glutathione, which significantly contributes to regulating reactive oxygen species within the cells [ 63 ]. Intracellular glutathione levels in antigen-presenting cells influence the pattern of Th1/Th2 cytokines [ 64 ]. It has been shown that the induction of glutathione reductase in response to  L. major  infection in C57BL/6 bone marrow-derived macrophages is several times greater than in BALB/c cells [ 65 ]. Higher gene expression and protein levels of antioxidant systems in C57BL/6 compared to BALB/c have also been observed at the basal level in bone marrow-derived macrophages [ 66 ]. Since higher levels of NO are produced by cells from C57BL/6 animals compared to BALB/c in response to  L. panamensis  infection [ 23 ], the results presented herein support the idea that C57BL/6 cells might be better prepared to counteract the negative effects of oxidative stres
L244: Bone marrow-derived macrophages from BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice fundamentally differ in their respiratory chain complex proteins, lysosomal enzymes and components of antioxidant stress systems .  J Proteomics  ( 2014 )  103 : 72 – 86 .  10.1016/j.jprot.2014.03.027
===== PMC11770371 =====
L38:Microglial phagocytosis of haematomas is crucial for neural functional recovery following intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH), a process regulated by various factors from within and outside the central nervous system (CNS). Extracellular vesicles (EVs), significant mediators of intercellular communication, have been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis and progression of CNS diseases. However, the regulatory role of endogenous EVs on the phagocytic capacity of microglia post‐ICH remains elusive. Utilising multi‐omics analysis of brain tissue‐derived EVs proteomics and single‐cell RNA sequencing, this study identified that bone marrow‐derived macrophages (BMDMs) potentially enhance microglial phagocytosis via EVs following ICH. By blocking BMDMs and reducing ARG1 in BMDM‐derived EVs, we demonstrated that BMDMs facilitate erythrophagocytosis by delivering ARG1 to microglia via EVs post‐ICH. EVs‐carried ARG1 was found to augment phagocytosis by promoting RAC1‐dependent 
L46:In this study, we explored the influence of EVs within the CNS on microglial erythrophagocytosis and haematoma regression post‐ICH. Utilising multiomic analysis, which combined EVs protein profiling and single‐cell RNA sequencing of brain tissue, we discovered that BMDMs are actively involved in the production of EVs following ICH. Impeding BMDMs resulted in a weakening of microglial erythrophagocytosis and a deceleration of haematoma clearance. We observed that after ICH, the ARG1‐enriched EVs derived from BMDMs were found in brain tissue EVs comparing to the Sham group. ARG1 is typically highly expressed in pro‐resolving macrophages, which predominate during the subacute and chronic phases of injury, and are involved in the conversion of arginine to ornithine from protein degradation in apoptotic cells. In contrast, in pro‐inflammatory macrophages, which are prevalent during the acute phase of injury, arginine is primarily metabolised by inducible nitric oxide synthase to produce
L56:BMDMs were extracted from the femurs of adult mice. Briefly, after cervical dislocation of adult mice, bilateral femurs were immediately isolated and placed in HBSS buffer. Both ends of the femurs were cut off, and the marrow cells were flushed out using a 5 mL syringe with HBSS buffer, repeating the process three times for each femur. After centrifuging at 300 ×  g  for 5 min, RBCs were lysed using RBC lysis buffer (Invitrogen, 00‐4333‐57, USA). The cell suspension was filtered through a 40 µm cell strainer, centrifuged again to obtain the cell pellets, and then resuspended in DMEM culture medium (Gibco, 11965092, USA) containing 20 ng/mL M‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐02, USA) and 20 ng/mL GM‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐03, USA) and 10% FBS before being seeded into cell culture flasks. Three days later, the medium was completely replaced to remove non‐adherent cells, and subsequently, half of the medium was changed every 3 days.
L59:BMDM‐EVs were extracted from BMDM conditional culture medium following MISEV2018 and MISEV2023 guidelines and protocol as previously described (Wang et al.  2024 ). In brief, mature BMDMs were gently washed for three times with PBS to remove dead cells or impurities. Replace the medium with a complete culture medium that has been pre‐treated with ultracentrifugation to remove EVs from FBS. After culturing for 96 h, collect the culture medium for subsequent sequential ultracentrifugation, using the same parameters and procedures as previously described for the extraction of tissue‐derived EVs.
L79:The method of clearing bone marrow macrophages with busulfan was previously published (Peake et al.  2015 ). In brief, busulfan powder (MedChemExpress, HY‐B0245, USA) was dissolved in DMSO (Sigma‐Aldrich, D2650, USA) to prepare a 12 mg/mL stock solution, which was aliquoted and stored at −20°C. Before each injection, the stock solution was diluted with sterile water to a working concentration of 6 mg/mL. The injection was completed within 10 min. Starting 7 days before the planned model construction, the drug was administered intraperitoneally every 2 days, with a dose of 20 mg busulfan per kilogram of body weight. Mice in the Vehicle control group received an equivalent volume of DMSO and sterile water mixture.
L98:We have procured a custom lentivirus (LV‐Arg1‐RNAi) from Shanghai GeneChem Co., Ltd. ( www.genechem.com.cn ) to infect primary BMDMs cultured in vitro, with the aim of interfering with the expression of ARG1 in these cells. In summary, after the primary BMDMs were extracted and cultured for 6 days, in a P2 laboratory setting, a complete culture medium containing 10% FBS and 4% virus infection enhancement solution (GeneChem, HitransG A, China) was prepared. Subsequently, the lentivirus solution was added at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 5, and the culture medium in the flask was replaced. The cells were then incubated in an incubator for an additional 72 h, during which, over 80% of the cells exhibited green fluorescence under a fluorescence microscope. The culture medium was then replaced with a complete medium supplemented with 2 µg/mL puromycin (Beyotime Biotechnology, ST551‐10 mg, China), and the cells were further cultured for 3 days to obtain a pure population of BMDMs 
L122:Busulfan, a myelosuppressive agent primarily used for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, has been employed in animal studies to establish myeloablation models or to prepare for bone marrow transplantation (O'Marcaigh and Betcher  1996 ). To assess the impact of BMDM‐derived EVs on the erythrophagocytic activity of microglial cells, we induced ICH in mice following myeloablation with busulfan and evaluated the residual haematoma, neurological recovery, and the erythrophagocytosis of microglia (Figures  3a  and  S5 ).
L126:Following ICH, the clearance of the haematoma within the brain tissue primarily relies on the phagocytic activity of microglial cells and peripheral infiltrating macrophages. We used magnetic bead sorting and in vitro RBCs co‐culture phagocytosis assays to assess the impact of BMDM deficiency on the erythrophagocytic function of microglial cells (Figure  S6a,b ). The sham group represented the baseline level of erythrocyte phagocytosis by microglial cells under non‐injury stress conditions, and busulfan pretreatment did not affect the phagocytic activity of microglial cells. The phagocytic activity of microglia in the intracerebral haemorrhage group did not significantly differ from that in the sham group 1 day post‐haemorrhage (Figure  S6c–e ). However, by the 3th day post‐ICH, microglia in the vehicle group exhibited a heightened erythrophagocytic capacity compared to the sham group, while the Busulfan group showed no significant difference in microglial erythrophagocytisis when
===== PMC11780875 =====
L136:Induction and Identification of Adipogenic, Osteogenic, and Chondrogenic Differentiation of Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs)
L137:BMMSC differentiation experiments were conducted using commercial kits. Specifically, the OriCell® Adipogenic Differentiation Kit (Cyagen, MUXMX-90031) was used to induce adipogenic differentiation, the OriCell® Osteogenic Differentiation Kit (Cyagen, MUXMX-90021) was used for osteogenic differentiation, and the OriCell® Chondrogenic Differentiation Kit (Cyagen, MUXMX-90041) was used for chondrogenic differentiation. Following induction, Oil Red O staining, alizarin red staining, and alcian blue staining were used to identify BMMSC adipogenesis, osteogenesis, and chondrogenesis, respectively.
L160:A 24-mm Transwell® cell culture plate (Corning, 3412) with a membrane pore size of 0.4 μm was used for the experiment. BMSCs were seeded in the upper chamber, and RAW264.7 cells were seeded in the lower chamber at an initial cell seeding ratio of 2:1. To induce the RAW264.7 foam cell model, a complete medium containing high glucose (33.3 mmol/L) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL, 75 μg/mL) (Yiyuan, YB-002) was added to the lower chamber. The EV secretion inhibitor GW4869 (MCE, HY-19363) was used to analyze the role of EVs on the effects of BMMSCs on RAW264.7 cells. For Oil Red O stains of RAW264.7 cells co-cultured with BMMSCs, cell slides were placed in the lower chamber before they were seeded.
L198:Supplementary Fig. 1. Isolation, Culture, and Identification of Primary Mouse Bone Marrow Mesenchymal Stem Cells. A. Schematic representation of the Ficoll-based isolation protocol for BMMSCs using density gradient centrifugation. B. Morphology of mouse BMMSCs observed under a light microscope. C. Assessment of the trilineage differentiation potential of BMMSCs into adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic lineages. Differentiation was confirmed using specific staining protocols: Oil Red O for adipogenesis, Alizarin Red for osteogenesis, and Alician Blue for chondrogenesis. D. Flow cytometry analysis of BMMSC surface markers. Cells were positive for CD44, CD29, and Sca-1, and negative for CD31, CD117, and CD34.
L200:Supplementary Fig. 3. HE staining of mouse liver. Abbreviations: WT, wild type; DA, diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis; BMMSC-EV, extracellular vesicles derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells.
===== PMC11878796 =====
L31:Clinical specimens of UC patients with EBV infection and a mouse model of dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis with concurrent murine γ-herpesvirus 68 (MHV-68) infection were utilized to investigate the relationship between EBV infection and macrophage pyroptosis.  In vivo , adoptive transfer of MHV-68-induced macrophages and macrophage depletion were performed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.  In vitro , myeloid leukemia mononuclear cells of human (THP-1) and macrophages derived from mouse bone marrow (BMDMs) were stimulated with EBV and MHV-68, respectively, to assess macrophage pyroptosis and glycolysis.
L48:The mice (C57BL/6, male), obtained from GemPharmatech Co., Ltd. (Chengdu, China) at 6–8 weeks of age, were housed in the BSL-2 animal center at West China Hospital. All mice were randomized into experimental groups and acclimatized for 7 days before beginning the experimental protocol. Mice were provided with an oral 2% (w/v) solution containing DSS, with a molecular weight ranging between 36 000 and 50 000 Da, mixed in their drinking water for an interval of 5 days. Subsequently, they were returned to regular water for an additional period of 3 days to trigger colitis. To simulate colitis concurrent with MHV-68 infection, mice were intraperitoneally injected with 200 µl of murine γ-herpesvirus 68 (MHV-68) at an injection dose of 1 × 10 6  plaque-forming units (PFU)/ml before DSS administration. To ensure the systemic dissemination of the macrophages via the bloodstream, adoptive transfer procedures involved stimulating bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) with MHV-68 or phospha
L50:Myeloid leukemia mononuclear cells of human (THP-1) were transformed into adherent macrophages by treatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA; 100 nM) for 24 h. BMDMs were treated with mouse macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) to drive differentiation, whereas 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) was used to inhibit glycolysis. To obtain peritoneal macrophages, 10 ml of cold PBS was injected into the abdominal cavity of mice, coupled with a 3-min abdominal massage to obtain peritoneal lavage fluid. Cells were pelleted from the lavage fluid after centrifugation for 5 min at 1500 rpm and subsequently used for further experiments.
L72:To investigate whether murine MHV-68 virus can activate pyroptosis in murine macrophages, we stimulated BMDMs with MHV-68 for 12 and 24 h, followed by RT-qPCR to confirm MHV-68-infected BMDMs and western blotting to detect pyroptosis-related proteins. The data revealed that MHV-68 indeed infected BMDMs and effectively boosted the generation of pyroptosis proteins, including GSDMD, NLRP3, IL-18, and IL-1β in BMDMs, with the most pronounced effect observed at 12 h post-stimulation ( Supplementary Fig. 4 , see  online supplementary material ). This effect was comparable to the stimulatory effect of pyroptosis induced by EBV infection in human macrophages. Furthermore, to assess the direct physiological effects of MHV-68-induced macrophages on colitis, we treated BMDMs with MHV-68 or PBS for 12 h  in vitro , followed by adoptive transfer into mice that had been exposed to 2% DSS water for 3 days. The mice continued to receive 2% DSS water for an additional 2 days before being switched 
L79:Figure 6. MHV-68-induced macrophage pyroptosis is associated with the upregulation of glycolysis. Relative mRNA levels of glycolysis-related genes, including GLUT1 ( A ), PFKFB3 ( B ), HIF ( C ), HK2 ( D ), PKM ( E ), and H6PD ( F ), were measured in peritoneal macrophages isolated from control mice, mice co-treated with DSS and MHV-68, and mice treated with DSS alone, and normalized to GAPDH. ( G ) Protein levels of glycolysis-related markers, including HIF, HK2, ENO1, and PPIF, were assessed in BMDMs challenged with MHV-68. ( H ) Protein levels of pyroptosis markers, including NLRP3, GSDMD, IL-18, and IL-1β, were measured by western blotting in MHV-68-induced BMDMs treated with or without the glycolysis inhibitor 2-DG. * P  ≤ 0.05, ** P  ≤ 0.01, *** P  ≤ 0.001, and  **** P  ≤ 0.0001. NS, Not significant.
===== PMC12054994 =====
L43:Stromal cells, formerly known as mesenchymal stromal cells, are a heterogeneous population of non-blood forming skeletal cells in the bone marrow microenvironment (BMME). These cells include stem and progenitor cells with self-renewal and multi-lineage differentiation potential toward the osteoblastic, chondrocytic and adipocytic cell lineages. 1 , 2  Murine stromal cells have been characterized by their cell surface marker expression, genetic lineage marking studies, and single cell transcriptomic analysis. 1 , 3  We and others identify stromal cells by the negative expression of CD45 (general hematopoietic marker), B220/CD3e/Ter119 (B cell, T cell, and erythroid: Lineage marker: Lin), and CD31 (endothelial cell marker), 1 , 3 , 4  with positive expression of CD51 (extracellular Nestin +  stromal cell marker) 5  and variable expression of Sca1 (stem cell antigen-1). 6–8  Stromal cells have increasingly gained attention as important regulators of skeletal and hematopoietic homeosta
L95:To further define the stromal cell characteristics of BM and bone derived cells, we focused on SOX9 expression. While SOX9 is an important transcriptional factor for chondrogenic differentiation,  Cre  recombinase activity targeted by the SOX9 promoter was previously shown to identify undifferentiated precursors that can differentiate to tri-lineage subsets and CXCL12-expressing stromal cells. 22  To evaluate SOX9 expressions in the murine BMME cells we isolated from BM or bone, we utilized SOX9-GFP transgenic mice. SOX9 expressing cells were rare in whole BM cells but could be detected in bone-derived cells ( Figure 5A ). SOX9 +  cells were enriched in the CD45 − /Lin − /CD31 − /CD51 +  population and also detected in immature hematopoietic supportive cell populations like PαS (Lin − /CD45 − /CD31 − /Sca-1 + /CD140a + ) 4  and Pααv (Lin − /CD45 − /CD31 − /CD51 + /CD140a + ) 5  ( Figure 5B ). Next, we analyzed SOX9 expression in our ex vivo culture. Within Lin − /CD45 − /CD31 − /Sc
L103:Stromal cells can technically be isolated and sorted from human and murine tissues, but these cells are heterogeneous and extremely limited in number (estimated at 0.001%-0.01% of marrow nucleated cells 26 ). The methodology to isolate highly purified functional primary stromal cells has long been a subject of controversy but is essential, since stromal cell purification is indispensable to precisely recapitulate their functional roles in BMME to explore their role in hematopoiesis, inflammatory states, and hematological malignancies. There are several previous methodological reports regarding ex vivo culture of primary mouse stromal cells. 11 , 12 , 19  However, these methods appear to underestimate the macrophage contamination in the cultures. We found that the morphology of murine macrophages in ex vivo culture can be distinguishable from the much larger stromal cells based on cell size although both cell types strongly adhere to the plastic surface and are inseparable with con
===== PMC12105080 =====
L11:The present study aimed to elucidate the effect of HkEf phagocytosed by intestinal dendritic cells (DCs) to secrete exosomes, on immune cells and their underlying mechanisms using mouse bone marrow-derived DCs [BMDCs; mainly plasmacytoid (pDCs) or conventional (cDCs)] as intestinal DCs, to examine the effects of exosomes purified and isolated from HkEf-stimulated BMDCs on a subset of immune cells derived from mouse spleen, and analyzing microRNAs (miRNAs) in exosomes derived from BMDCs and macrophages (BMDMs).
L29:MiRNA assay of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions.  Mouse bone marrow cells were stimulated using GM-CSF (077-04674; FUJIFILM Wako Pure Chemical Corporation). HkEf (-) and (+) exosome fractions were obtained from BMDMs as previously described by Matsuo  et al  ( 5 ).
L42:miRNA assay of mouse BMDM-derived HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions
L43:The heatmap of the FirePlex ® miRNA multiplex assay of BMDM-derived exosome fractions in Experiment 3 is revealed in  Fig. 3 .
L46:In a previous study by the authors ( 5 ), BMDMs were used as test cells. Orally administered HkEf was suggested to have been phagocyted by gut macrophages after which they released exosomes as signal transmitters for immune regulation. In Experiment 1 of the present study, a stimulation test on mouse spleen cells was also conducted using BMDCs (pDC/cDC) obtained via differentiation with Flt3-L. Quantitative changes were predicted in exosomes upon HkEf stimulation; however, no marked quantitative differences were observed between the HkEf (-) and (+) groups in terms of exosome release. While cDC and pDC significantly increased in the HkEf (+) group compared with that in the HkEf (-) group based on the effect on the immune spleen cell subset, no such influence was observed in NK cells, activated NK cells, and red pulp macrophages. This suggests that the qualitative change of exosomes is accompanied by quantitative changes in cDC and pDC. Furthermore, exosomes related to immune respon
L50:In Experiment 3, miRNAs of exosome fractions derived from BMDMs were examined.
L51:The significantly increased miRNAs were almost common among the BMDC- and BMDM-derived exosome fractions, despite small differences in the quantity. Unlike the measured value of BMDC-derived exosome fractions, the rate of increase in miR-17 and miR-20a, which inhibited differentiation to macrophages targeting RUNX1( 29 ), were smaller in BMDM-derived exosome fractions (Experiment 3: miR-17, 1.25-fold, miR-20a, 1.39-fold; Experiment 2: miR-17, 12.17-fold, miR-20a, 9.59-fold). In a previous study of BMDM-derived mouse spleen cells ( 5 ), the number of red pulp macrophages increased. This may be because the rate of increase in BMDM-derived miR-17 and miR-20a was smaller than that of BMDCs, because of which differentiation to macrophages may be induced. Although in Experiment 3 miR-223 decreased more in the HkEf (+) than in the HkEf (-) groups, in Experiment 2, miR-223 conversely increased significantly (Experiment 3: 0.54-fold; Experiment 2: 11.01-fold). As previously mentioned, the i
L58:Moreover, as a result of measuring miRNAs in HkEf-stimulated exosome fractions derived from BMDCs (pDC/cDCs) and BMDMs (macrophages), effects mediated by miRNA-rich exosomes such as miR-146, which play a part in the complement mechanism of cells of the innate immune system are hypothesized. Orally administered HkEf releases exosomes involved in immune response signals by intestinal immune cells (macrophages and DCs), and regulates immune activation as an effect on distant immune tissues via blood circulation. Thus, it can be hypothesized that this is one of the mechanisms to prevent systemic infection.
===== PMC12272449 =====
L14:We developed a transgenic mouse model (FAD4T) by overexpressing human APPSwe/Ind and PSEN1 M146L/L286V on a C57BL/6J background. FAD 4T  mice were characterized for hallmark AD features, including amyloid deposition, glial activation, and cognitive deficits. Additionally, single-cell transcriptomic analysis was performed to profile bone marrow and brain myeloid cells. Bone marrow transplantation experiments were conducted to assess the contribution of bone marrow-derived macrophages to neuroinflammation in AD.
L16:FAD 4T  mice exhibited hallmark AD phenotypes such as amyloid deposition, glial activation, and cognitive impairment, alongside osteoporosis-like changes. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified a significant increase in bone marrow-derived macrophages in the brains of FAD 4T  mice. These cells showed upregulation of AD-related genes, including  Cst7  and  Ctsd , suggesting their active role in neuroinflammation. Bone marrow transplantation experiments further confirmed that bone marrow-derived macrophages contributed to the inflammatory processes in the AD brain.
L68:Trajectory analysis of macrophage and monocyte subsets in the brain showed differentiation toward M1 macrophages. Similarly, upregulation of cytokines and enrichment of several proinflammatory metabolic pathways were observed in 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain macrophages. Furthermore, the hub location of bone marrow macrophages in cluster interaction analysis indicated that bone marrow macrophages probably reshaped the inflammatory environment in FAD 4T  mice via induction of M1 macrophage differentiation in the brain. Reclustering of macrophages also identified a specific subcluster in the 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain. Its role in the brain immune environment and AD pathogenesis needs further validation.
L69:Intriguingly, further ligand-receptor analysis revealed the interaction between bone marrow macrophages and component cells of the BBB, such as the  Grn-Sort1  axis, as an important regulator of BBB integrity. Brain endothelial cells, pericytes and bone marrow myeloid cells also interacted with each other via several  Cxcl  pathways, as identified in ligand-receptor analysis, indicating the recruitment of bone marrow myeloid cells to the brain. Since breakdown of the BBB is an early biomarker of human AD and many other neuroinflammatory diseases [ 10 ], we propose that bone marrow myeloid cells impair BBB integrity via local inflammation and proinflammatory cytokines. The similar changes like those in bone marrow of FAD 4T  mice were also found in other amyloid models. In 5 × FAD mice, single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that monocyte-derived macrophages from bone marrow, express a unique set of genes encoding scavenger receptors (for example, Mrc1, Msr1) [ 12 ]. CCR2-mediated mono
L140:12 Dvir-Szternfeld R. Castellani G. Arad M. Cahalon L. Colaiuta S.P. Keren-Shaul H. Alzheimer's disease modification mediated by bone marrow-derived macrophages via a TREM2-independent pathway in mouse model of amyloidosis Nat Aging 2 2022 60 73 37118355
===== PMC12443962 =====
L41:To investigate ABC–microglia crosstalk, microglia were treated with conditioned media (CM) from ABCs derived from 5×FAD mice and WT counterparts (supplementary Fig.  7a ). The results showed that 5×FAD-derived ABCs increased IL-6 levels (supplementary Fig.  7b ) and impaired microglial Aβ 42 -555 phagocytosis (supplementary Fig.  7c, d ). Similarly, intracerebroventricular ABC administration to 10-month-old APP/PS1 mice markedly exacerbated the cerebral amyloid burden and maladaptive microglial activation (supplementary Fig.  7e, h ). The results suggest that ABCs can augment microglial reactivity and switch on their detrimental effects related to neurodegeneration. 7 , 9 , 47
===== PMC12478242 =====
L1:Protocol for isolating and characterizing extracellular vesicles by ultracentrifugation from bone marrow-derived macrophages
L5:Extracellular vesicles (EVs) enable the transmission of crucial molecular components between the parental and recipient cells. Macrophages can polarize into two distinct macrophage phenotypes, thereby exerting diverse effects on recipient cells. Here, we present a protocol for the direct isolation of EVs from bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) using ultracentrifugation. We describe steps for culturing BMDMs and macrophage polarization. We then detail procedures for further characterizing the isolated EVs using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), western blotting, and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA).
L9:Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) are considered crucial carriers that mediate the immunoregulatory functions of macrophages, influence the microenvironment, and participate in intercellular communication. Investigating the effects of EVs from BMDMs under different polarization states on downstream cells (such as other immune cells, tumor cells, endothelial cells, etc.) is crucial for elucidating the pathophysiological mechanisms related to macrophages. Here, we provide a comprehensive protocol for isolating EVs by ultracentrifugation from mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages, followed by further characterization of the isolated EVs using transmission electron microscopy, western blotting, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. We have applied this protocol to directly isolate EVs from BMDMs using ultracentrifugation and characterize them. This protocol can also be utilized for isolating and characterizing EVs derived from other cell types. Furt
L26:Here, we describe the media components used to culture bone marrow-derived macrophages. BMDMs media Reagent Stock concentration Final concentration Amount DMEM high glucose medium N/A N/A 445 mL Certified Fetal Bovine Serum N/A 10% 50 mL Penicillin-Streptomycin Solution 10,000 U/mL 100 U/mL 5 mL Total N/A 500 mL Store at 4°C for up to 14 days.
L27:Premix all of the above BMDMs media additives and sterilize them through a 0.22 μm filtration system. When preparing the culture medium, it is important to use EV-depleted FBS. FBS contains EVs, which can contaminate cell-derived EVs and may interfere with downstream analysis. 1
L29:Generation of BMDMs
L32:Figure 1 Generation of BMDMs overview Illustrative BMDMs generation overview (by Figdraw).
L33:This step details how to generate bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) ( Figure 1 ). 1. Euthanize C57BL/6 mice (approximately 8–10 weeks old), spray 75% ethanol on the abdomen and lower regions of the mice, and place in a supine position.  Troubleshooting . 2. Eliminate the muscles and connective tissue carefully following separating the whole leg bones with scissors. Note:  Gauze can be used to assist in the separation of the connective tissue and muscles of the leg bones. 3. Use scissors to gently cut along the area above the femoral greater trochanter and below the ankle joint. 4. Cut the knee joint, separate the tibia and femur. Note:  Do not break the bones in steps 3 and 4, maintain the integrity of the bone marrow cavity. 5. Add an appropriate amount of 75% ethanol to a 10 cm diameter cell culture dish in advance, transfer the bones into it, and soak for 5 min. 6. Take another 10 cm cell culture dish and add 10 mL DMEM medium (without FBS) into it. 7. After rinsing the ti
===== PMC12589482 =====
L23:Human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) and human bone marrow-derived macrophages (CP-H186) were purchased from the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, and mouse mononuclear macrophages (RAW264.7) were purchased from American type culture collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA, USA). BMSCs and RAW264.7 were cultured in DMEM (Gibco, Grande Island, USA) supplemented with 10% FBS (Gibco, Grande Island, USA), 500 U/ml penicillin, and 500 µg/ml streptomycin (Invitrogen, Shanghai, China). While CP-H186 was cultured in 1 ml of DMEM F12 growth media (Gibco, Grande Island, USA) containing l-glutamine (2 mM), penicillin (100 units/ml), streptomycin (0.1 mg/ml), 10% FBS and 10% L-Cell Media (LCM). All cells were cultivated at 37 °C in an incubator with 5% CO2.
L27:Exosomes, including NC exo or miR-223 exo, were both isolated. The exosome isolation protocol was based on a previous exosome isolation method 1 . BMSCs were cultured with complete DMEM containing 10% FBS (depletion of exosomes by ultracentrifugation) for 2 days. Then, exosomes were isolated from the conditioned medium of BMSCs transfected with NC mimic (NC exo) and miR-223 mimic (miR-223 exo) by ultracentrifugation, and nearly 50 ml of conditioned medium was collected. Initial spins consisted of 1000 g × 10 min, 2000 g × 10 min, and 10,000 g × 30 min. The supernatant was retained and centrifuged at 100,000 g for 70 min and then resuspended in PBS. The samples were then centrifuged at 100,000 g for an additional 70 min. The final precipitate was resuspended in 200 µl of PBS and stored at -80 °C. The final precipitate was then centrifuged at 100,000 g for an additional 70 min. Protein concentrations were assayed using the Bicinchoninic Acid (BCA) Protein Assay Reagent (Pierce, Rockf
===== PMC12800274 =====
L13:Studies have shown that macrophages in the liver play an important role in ConA-induced AIH 8 , 9 . Macrophages are the most abundant immune cells in the liver and are involved in maintaining liver immune homeostasis 10 , 11 . However, macrophages in the liver exhibit substantial heterogeneity. Kupffer cells (KCs) are the predominant macrophage population in the healthy liver, and they originate from the yolk sac 12 . KCs replenish relying on self-renewal under homeostatic conditions, independent of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) 13 . When hepatitis occurs, KCs are activated and then inflammatory Ly6C hi  monocyte-derived macrophages (MoMFs) are recruited into the liver to participate in the inflammatory response. Blocking the recruitment of MoMFs reduces hepatic inflammation and fibrosis 14 . Although each macrophage subset plays a distinct role in maintaining liver homeostasis, the concrete cellular and molecular mechanisms of different subsets in regulating liver immuni
L48:Fig. 6 Selective expression of CCL12 in CD169 +  macrophages in AIH. a  KEGG analysis of the upregulated genes enriched in the siglec1-positive macrophage subset.  b  GO analysis of the upregulated genes enriched in the siglec1-positive macrophage subset.  c  Relative mRNA levels of  Ccl12 ,  Ccl2 ,  Cxcl10  and  Ccl6 .  d  Gating strategies for flow cytometry sorting.  e  Relative  Ccl12 ,  Ccl2 ,  Cxcl10  and  Ccl6  mRNA levels in the sorted CD169 +  macrophages.  f  Relative  Ccl12 ,  Ccl2 ,  Cxcl10  and  Ccl6  mRNA levels in the sorted cells from the four gates.  g  Concentrations of CCL12 in the supernatants of the sorted cells from the four gates after culturing 24 h in vitro without any stimulation.  h  Concentrations of CCL12 in the liver homogenate.  i  Relative  Ccl12  mRNA levels of the BMDM with or without stimulation with IFNγ in vitro.  j  Concentrations of CCL12 in the supernatants of the BMDM with or without stimulation with IFNγ in vitro. Results are expressed as m
L205:**Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM) preparation and stimulation**
===== PMC12837519 =====
L95:Previous studies have shown that activated macrophages secrete pro-fibrotic cytokines that stimulate fibroblast proliferation and migration, thereby accelerating fibrogenesis [ 14 ,  15 ]. To investigate whether ZC3H4-mediated macrophage activation influences fibroblast behavior, we collected conditioned media from THP-1-derived macrophages and applied it to GFP-labeled human pulmonary fibroblasts (GFP-HPF-a). As shown in Figs.  6 J, K, conditioned media from SiO₂-stimulated macrophages significantly enhanced fibroblast migration in a wound healing assay. Notably, this effect was abolished when ZC3H4 expression was silenced in macrophages, indicating that ZC3H4 contributes to macrophage-mediated fibroblast activation.
===== PMC12968255 =====
L19:Figure 1: Macrophage origin and practical considerations for in vitro MDM generation. (Top) Schematic representation of macrophage ontogeny in humans, highlighting TRMs derived from embryonic progenitors, bone marrow–derived monocytes (BMDMs) and MDMs. Advantages and limitations of using TRMs, MDMs, and BMDMs in research applications are summarized. A schematic overview of human macrophage ontogeny, illustrating the origins of TRMs from embryonic progenitors, as well as bone marrow–derived monocytes (BMDMs) and MDMs, is presented. The main advantages and limitations of using these different macrophage sources in experimental settings are outlined to clearly understand biological relevance as well as technical feasibility. (Bottom) Step-by-step representation of the in vitro protocols for generating human MDMs. The process includes isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), enrichment of monocytes through plastic adhesion, negative selection, or positive selection, fol
L36:Similarly, tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-like phenotypes can be induced by exposing MDMs to a cytokine cocktail containing IL-4, IL-10, M-CSF, and tumor-conditioned media, an approach that simulates the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. IL-4 and M-CSF promote an M2-like phenotype characterized by tissue remodeling and immunosuppression, while IL-10 further enhances their anti-inflammatory properties. The inclusion of tumor-conditioned media further skews Mϕ toward a pro-tumoral phenotype, resembling TAMs in the tumor microenvironment. These cells typically exhibit high expression of typical anti-inflammatory markers (i.e., CD163 and CD206), increased secretion of immunosuppressive cytokines like TGF-β, and enhanced angiogenic and matrix-remodeling abilities. TAM-like MDMs are particularly useful for studying tumor-immune interactions, investigating immune evasion mechanisms, and exploring therapeutic strategies targeting the tumor microenvironment (101–106). However, de
===== PMC2186468 =====
L3:We have defined the expression of the macrophages (m phi)-specific antigen (Ag) F4/80 during differentiation in culture. The progenitor cells-the colony-forming unit in culture and cluster-forming cell- lacked Ag F4/80 but gave rise to colonies of F4/80-positive adherent m phi, as shown by fluorescence-activated cell sorting and clonal assays with L cell-conditioned medium as the source of growth factor. Ag F4/80 first appeared on a nonadherent precursor found in mass liquid BM cultures after 3 d. Once adherent, m phi expressed high levels of Ag F4/80 and other markers. The role of L cell-conditioned medium and of adherence on expression of Ag F4/80 was also examined. Clonal analysis of F4/80 and other Ag, Mac-1, and 2.4G2 (FcR) showed that all cells in all independent colonies come to express these markers. These studies establish that F4/80 is a marker for the more mature stages of m phi development and that Ag expression increases progressively during maturation in vitro. Heterog
===== PMC2188919 =====
L3:Flagellates of the genus Leishmania are obligate intracellular parasites of vertebrates including man. The microorganisms reside and multiply inside the phagolysosomes of cells of the mononuclear phagocyte lineage. We here report on the spontaneous leishmanicidal activity exerted extracellularly by immature cells of the mononuclear phagocyte lineage. Highly purified, bone marrow-derived macrophage precursor cells displayed a strong spontaneous leishmanicidal activity already at very low effector/target rations (3:1, 6:1). This leishmanicidal activity was effective against both promastigotes and amastigotes as targets. The cytotoxic effect was evident within 4 h and maximal after 12 h of effector-target organism cocultivation, as determined by a radiolabel-release assay. An intimate cell-cell contact seemed necessary for the parasites to be killed.
===== PMC2427050 =====
L50:Alveolar macrophages (AMs) were obtained by repeated brochoalveolar lavage with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) from C57BL/6 mice or MARCO -/-  and SR-AI/II -/-  mice after being euthanized by intraperitoneal pentobarbital injection. Brochoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) was immediately placed on ice, centrifuged at 200 × g for 10 min and the pellets were washed twice with cold PBS. Cell counts and viability were determined by using a hemocytometer and trypan blue dye exclusion. Cytocentrifuge preparations were stained with Diff-Quik, a modified Wright-Giemsa stain to allow differential analysis. All BAL samples contained greater than 95% AMs. AMs were adjusted to 1 × 10 6  cells/ml in DMEM conditioned medium (CM), which contained DMEM medium supplemented with 15% FBS, penicillin (100 U/ml), streptomycin (100 μg/ml), 10 mM HEPES, and 10 ng/ml of mouse macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF).
L52:The AMJ2-C11 cell line was the source of the J2 retrovirus used [ 30 ]. The virus was prepared as described previously [ 30 ] with some modifications. Supernatants from exponentially growing cultures of AMJ2-C11 were collected and cell debris was removed by centrifugation (3000 g, rotor GH-3.8, Beckman) for 15 min. After clarification, the supernatants were filtered through a 0.45-μm membrane (Millipore, Bedford, MA), diluted 1/1 with DMEM conditioned Medium containing 6 μg/ml of polybrene (final concentration), and added to the primary cultures for overnight at 37°C.
L54:Primary AMs were isolated by BAL and stimulated to proliferate in DMEM conditioned medium at a density of 1 × 10 6  cells/ml in a 6-well plate (Costar, Cambridge, MA), and incubated for 24 h at 37°C with 5% CO 2 . Nonadherent cells were washed off with warm medium 6–8 h later. After an additional incubation for 24 h in DMEM conditioned medium, the nonadherent cells were washed off again, resulting in a population of cells with predominantly macrophage (>99%) morphology as determined with the modified Wright's stain. Adherent AM monolayers were infected with J2 virus supernatants mixed with DMEM conditioned media and polybrene. After 24 h, excess virus was removed and cells were exposed to a second round of J2 infection under the same conditions to improve transfection efficiency. Clusters of rapidly proliferating cells were evident ca. 10 days after initial infection. After 1 month, cells were grown in regular DMEM medium without M-CSF. The virus transformed cells progressively inc
===== PMC3427505 =====
L16:Salmonella  infects macrophages, but how frequently this occurs or the probability that cells become infected is unknown. To calculate the infection rate of macrophages by  S.  Typhimurium, we first developed simple compartmental models representing macrophages (both infected and uninfected) and bacteria (both intracellular and extracellular) to define the basic dynamic events. These early rounds of models were extremely simplistic but served to underline ambiguities in existing knowledge. In the iterative process between models and experiments, we raised and tested a number of candidate assumptions, which were necessary for making parsimonious models. A basic assumption is that all macrophages can be infected when challenged with  S.  Typhimurium. To test this, murine-cultured primary-bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were infected with  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 constitutively expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP), referred to subsequently as G, at a multiplicity of infec
L23:Figure 2. Salmonella  Typhimurium are contained in  Salmonella -containing vacuoles (SCVs) at different stages of maturation, indicating that reinfection events have occurred. Overnight cultures of  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 expressing GFP (G) were added to BMDM at an MOI of 100. Samples were fixed at 10 min post-infection and immunolocalization for extracellular bacteria was performed using anti-O5 antisera. The panels show the localization of extracellular G bacteria, the early phagosomal protein EEA1, the late phagosomal protein LAMP-1, the overlaid image of G, EEA1 and LAMP-1 and the merged picture of all the images in phase contrast. The arrows indicate SCVs of differing maturity containing  S.  Typhimurium. A total of 100 BMDM were assessed per experiment and this was repeated on three separate occasions.
L25: Figure 2. Salmonella  Typhimurium are contained in  Salmonella -containing vacuoles (SCVs) at different stages of maturation, indicating that reinfection events have occurred. Overnight cultures of  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 expressing GFP (G) were added to BMDM at an MOI of 100. Samples were fixed at 10 min post-infection and immunolocalization for extracellular bacteria was performed using anti-O5 antisera. The panels show the localization of extracellular G bacteria, the early phagosomal protein EEA1, the late phagosomal protein LAMP-1, the overlaid image of G, EEA1 and LAMP-1 and the merged picture of all the images in phase contrast. The arrows indicate SCVs of differing maturity containing  S.  Typhimurium. A total of 100 BMDM were assessed per experiment and this was repeated on three separate occasions.
L52:A simple explanation for the model suggesting two populations of cells might be that the BMDMs contain a mixture of type 1 and type 2 macrophages that are differentially susceptible to infection with  S.  Typhimurium [ 15 ]. Primary macrophages generated in MCSF-containing media are predominantly type 1 [ 16 ]. Using flow cytometry analysis (for the type 2 macrophage marker CD206) [ 17 ], we confirmed that our primary BMDMs contained 80–90% type 1 and 10–20% type 2 macrophages. More type 2 BMDMs, as expected [ 16 ], are infected with  S.  Typhimurium (89.6% of cells) after challenge than the type 1s (39.6% cells), although whether this is due to increased bacterial proliferation or increased susceptibility to infection leading to increased numbers of reinfection events is unclear. The proportions of type 1 and 2 macrophages do not appear to correspond with the model fit of two populations of approximately equal size. Interestingly though, the proportions could be compatible with th
L72:The mathematical analysis identified that the observed data are best explained by a two-macrophage population model rather than having a homogenous population of cells. This suggests heterogeneity in cellular susceptibility to infection. Most biological studies analyse only the cells that have been infected by  S.  Typhimurium or consider studies where a population of cells have been pooled together and are all assumed to have been infected. Our work shows clearly that some cells are far more susceptible to infection than others. Heterogeneity or plasticity in macrophage phenotypes is a well-established concept with, at least, two types of macrophage characterized: classically activated (type 1) and alternatively activated (type 2) [ 15 ]. Type 1 macrophages are important for killing intracellular pathogens, whereas type 2 macrophages generate responses to parasites [ 15 ]. Our primary BMDMs contained over 80 per cent (type 1) and less than 20 per cent (type 2 macrophages). This pr
L76:Primary BMDMs were prepared as described [ 20 ]. RAW264.7 macrophages (from ECACC) were grown and maintained as described [ 21 ]. A preliminary analysis showed that RAW264.7 cells were more susceptible to infection than BMDMs, and RAW264.7 cells were therefore used for the live imaging analysis. Cells were plated onto six-well plates at a plating density of 4 × 10 5  per well in a total of 2 ml of media (Sigma-Aldrich Ltd.).
L80:Bacteria from frozen glycerol stocks were streaked onto fresh LB agar plates and incubated at 37°C overnight. A single bacterial colony was inoculated into LB broth and incubated in a shaking incubator overnight at 37°C. A 1 : 10 dilution of the overnight culture was incubated with shaking for 2 h at 37°C. Bacteria were centrifuged at 4300  g  for 10 min and resuspended into an equal volume of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Optical density at 595 nm (O.D.595) was measured to determine the bacterial count, and the inoculum was diluted in PBS (200 µl final volume) to achieve the correct MOI. The bacterial viability and the MOI were confirmed by plating of culture dilutions. Experiments were conducted in culture medium without antibiotics to determine the bacterial-cell dynamics that occur during the infection phase of a traditional gentamicin protection assay. Macrophage death is characterized by the cell becoming detached from the plate or microscope slide. In microscopic analysis
===== PMC3686598 =====
L26:Recently, Fleetwood et al. compared the different responses of murine bone marrow-derived macrophages subsets GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ to LPS stimulation. After LPS stimulation, GM-BMϕ preferentially produced TNF-α, IL-6, IL-12p70, and IL-23 whereas, while M-BMϕ generated more IL-10 and CCL2 under similar conditions. Interestingly, phenotypes of GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ adopt the phenotype of other populations if pre-treated with M-CSF and GM-CSF, respectively. This indicates the plasticity of GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ by M-CSF and GM-CSF, and further supports the argument that GM-BMϕ may be the dominant macrophage subset during the inflammatory reaction [ 23 ].
===== PMC3741356 =====
L11:We have previously described a simpler method for producing functional monocytes and macrophages from hESC  [8] . This method utilises the spontaneous differentiation of hESC into embryoid bodies (comprising ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm), followed by directed differentiation along the myeloid lineage by IL-3 and M-CSF, to produce a homogeneous population of monocytes (esMC), which can be further differentiated into macrophages (esMDM). These macrophages are phenotypically and functionally comparable to blood monocyte-derived macrophages (bMDM). However, although this method can yield over 1×10 7  monocytes (MC) from a 6-well plate of differentiation cultures  [8] , such high yields are generally only achieved once a week, for 1–3 weeks, after which yields dramatically decrease. Moreover, there is substantial variability in monocyte yield across different hESC and hiPSC lines. Serum is the most likely component of the medium to cause the tail-off in productivity and the variabili
===== PMC4116603 =====
L104:Balwit JM Vanlangevelde P Vann JM Proctor RA Gentamicin-resistant menadione and hemin auxotrophic staphylococcus-aureus persist within cultured endothelial-cells J Infect Dis 1994 170 4 1033 1037 10.1093/infdis/170.4.1033 7930701
===== PMC4278753 =====
L102:It can be concluded that the MuMac-E8 cell line has the potential to differentiate into macrophages based on the immunophenotype, the phagocytic potential and NO producing capacity of the MuMac-E8 cells. Macrophages, dendritic cells and granulocytes can arise from a common myeloid precursor through different stimulation protocols  [42] . However, neither GM-CSF nor IL-4 was added to the cell culture of MuMac-E8 cells. Because myeloid cells can show a high plasticity among which macrophages  [43] – [50] , it should be investigated whether addition of different stimuli, e.g. IL-4, GM-CSF, M-CSF or tumor-conditioned medium  [6]  to the MuMac-E8 cell line gives rise to distinct cell types.
===== PMC4786427 =====
L36:We next developed a flow cytometry assay to quantify the transfer event to determine if the direct transfer of bacteria from cell to cell that we observed by live cell imaging occurred at a sufficient frequency to be biologically relevant. In these experiments, we infected cells with  F. tularensis , added the antibiotic gentamicin to kill extracellular bacteria and allowed the intracellular bacteria to proliferate for 18 hr. We then added uninfected recipient cells labeled with Cell Trace Red to these infected cells. The mixed cell population was co-cultured for 6 hr in the presence of gentamicin and then quantified infected recipient cells by flow cytometry based on double staining for Cell Trace Red and intracellular bacteria. Under these conditions  F. tularensis  transferred from infected to uninfected recipient J774 cells, mouse bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) and primary human monocyte derived macrophages (hMDMs) ( Figure 1B ).
L61:Figure 4. Plasma membrane protein transfer correlates with bacterial transfer. ( A ) Fluorescence micrographs of BMDMs before, during, and after trogocytosis. ( B ) A donor [white plasma membrane] and trogocytosis positive recipient BMDM [red cell] exchanging cytosolic material and bacteria. The bottom right panel is a 3D rendering of the Z-stack from the cells in the top panel. Percent of trogocytosis positive recipient cells that are ( C ) BMDMs or ( D ) hMDMs. ( E ) The percent of Balb/c recipient BMDMs that acquired SIINFEKL peptide bound MHC-I from B6 BMDMs. ( F ) The percent of infected splenocytes that underwent trogocytosis in a mouse infection model (8 or 9 mice per group from 4 independent experiments). DC refers to a doublet control. (All tissue culture data are from 3–4 independent experiments performed in triplicate) (Scale bar- 10 um) (Mean +/- SD). (ns p>0.05, *p<0.05, **p<0.01, ***p<0.001) DOI: 
L74:To quantify how often bacterial transfer resulted in detectable levels of trogocytosis, we monitored major histocompatibility complex I (MHC-I) transfer between infected donor and uninfected recipient BMDMs ( Wakim and Bevan, 2011 ;  Smyth et al., 2008 ). We infected C57BL/6 (B6) BMDMs (MHC-I H2-Kb) and added uninfected Balb/c BMDMs (MHC-I H2-Kd) to the infected B6 cells. After 6 hr of co-incubation, we assayed the Balb/c BMDMs for both  F. tularensis  infection and the acquisition of B6 MHC-I. We found that infection increased the amount of Balb/c BMDMs that acquired B6 MHC-I ( Figure 4—figure supplement 1A ). Likewise, newly infected Balb/c cells were significantly more likely to acquire B6 MHC-I than neighboring Balb/c cells that did not become infected ( Figure 4C ). As with bacterial transfer, trogocytosis did not require  de novo  host or bacterial protein synthesis and was inhibited by treatment with lecithin ( Figure 4—figure supplement 2 ). We also observed MHC-I exchange 
L102:For the BMDM, TC-1 and J774 transfer experiments, cells were seeded the night before the experiment at 250,000 cells per well in non-tissue culture treated 12 well dishes or 500,000 cells per well in a 6 well dish on coverslips for microscopy. BMDMs were generated as previously described ( Mortensen et al., 2010 ). Unless otherwise indicated, cells were infected with  F. tularensis  at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 100 ,  S. typhimurium  at an MOI of 10 or beads at an MOI of approximately 1. 10 ug/ml of gentamicin was added at 2 hr post inoculation when BMDMs or J774s were infected or 3 hr post inoculation for TC-1 cells. For co-incubation experiments, the indicated recipient cell type was added to the infected cells at 18 hr post inoculation and harvested at 24 hr post inoculation unless otherwise indicated.
===== PMC6579556 =====
L14:Bone marrow derived macrophages (BMMs) were generated from the femurs and tibias from wild-type C57BL/6 (The Jackson Laboratory) mice that were 8–12 weeks old. Conditionally-immortalized macrophages (CIMs) were derived from bone marrow cells from a 5-FU treated male Cas9 +  mouse ( Platt et al., 2014 ). Hoxb8 immortalized cells were generated as previously described ( Wang et al., 2006 ) with the modification that progenitors in bone marrow were enriched by negative depletion; cells expressing CD11b, Ter119, B220, CD5, CD19, and Gr-1 were depleted using biotinylated antibodies and streptavidin coated dynabeads. For re-selection of CIM progenitors, cells were cultured in 10 mg/ml G418 for 7 days. All mice were housed in specific-pathogen free conditions and treated using procedures described in animal care protocols approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of UC Berkeley.
L15:Progenitor CIMs prior to differentiation were maintained in RPMI (Gibco) supplemented with 10% FBS, 2% GM-CSF supernatant produced by a B16 murine melanoma cell line, 2 mM L-glutamine, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, 10 mM HEPES, 43 uM β-mercaptoethanol, and 2 uM β-estradiol (Sigma #E2758). Progenitor CIMs were maintained in suspension in non-treated tissue culture treated flasks at densities below 500,000 cells/ml before removal of β-estradiol and differentiation. BMMs and differentiated CIM macrophages were cultured in macrophage media: DMEM (Gibco) supplemented with 10% FBS, 10% M-CSF supernatant produced by 3T3-MCSF cells as previously described, 2 mM L-glutamine (Gibco), and 1 mM sodium pyruvate (Gibco). RAW 264.7 cells were cultured in DMEM (Gibco) supplemented with 10% FBS, 2 mM L-glutamine (Gibco), and 20 mM HEPES. To differentiate progenitor CIMs into macrophages, cells were washed twice in PBS + 1% FBS to fully remove β-estradiol, resuspended in complete macrophage media, and seede
L19:CIMs or BMMs were seeded at 60,000 cells per well onto white, clear-bottom CellBind 96-well plates (Corning) or 12-well TC-treated plates (Corning) in macrophage media one or two days prior to infection. For pre-treatment of macrophages with IFN-γ, post-seeding cell culture media was switched to media with 1.5 ng/µl of recombinant murine IFN-γ (Peprotech) 12–18 hr prior to infection, and activated cells were subsequently cultured in IFN-γ containing media throughout infection.
===== PMC6749721 =====
L19:Fig. 1 Propagation of liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in co-culture and subculture with their respective stromal cells in tissue culture dishes and their segregation using bacteriological Petri dishes.  a : Liver cells after passage 2, 21 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  b : Spleen cells after passage 8, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  c : Lung cells after passage 2, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  d : Primary brain cells 28 days after seeding (left panel) and brain cells after passage 1, 23 days after seeding (right panel) in a tissue culture dish.  e–h : Liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in bacteriological Petri dishes. Mø selectively adhered to the dish surface and non-adherent cells formed cell aggregates. Cell aggregates were removed by washing with conditioned medium except for the left panel of F.  e : Liver Mø segregated from liver stromal cells after passage 3 of subculture.  f : Spleen Mø segregated from spleen stromal cells 
L21: Fig. 1 Propagation of liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in co-culture and subculture with their respective stromal cells in tissue culture dishes and their segregation using bacteriological Petri dishes.  a : Liver cells after passage 2, 21 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  b : Spleen cells after passage 8, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  c : Lung cells after passage 2, 8 days after seeding in a tissue culture dish.  d : Primary brain cells 28 days after seeding (left panel) and brain cells after passage 1, 23 days after seeding (right panel) in a tissue culture dish.  e–h : Liver, spleen, lung, and brain Mø in bacteriological Petri dishes. Mø selectively adhered to the dish surface and non-adherent cells formed cell aggregates. Cell aggregates were removed by washing with conditioned medium except for the left panel of F.  e : Liver Mø segregated from liver stromal cells after passage 3 of subculture.  f : Spleen Mø segregated from spleen stromal cells
L24:The Mø were separated from the other stromal cells in co-culture according to their adhesive property to bacteriological Petri dishes, in which only the Mø should adhere to the dish. Within a few days of seeding co-cultured over-confluent cells, small round cells with a few processes, i.e. Mø adhering to the dish surface, were observed; cells of other shapes rarely adhered to the dish, and cell aggregates floating in the media were also evident (Fig.  1 e–h). These cell aggregates were easily removed by washing with conditioned media. The cell density of Mø was almost unchanged, with or without cell aggregates, in the dishes when culture continued for several days. We usually collected more than 1.5 × 10 6  adherent cells per 10-cmø bacteriological Petri dish.
L53:Co-cultured, over-confluent cells obtained from the liver and lung up to five passages, from the spleen up to eight passages, and from the brain up to two passages were used for separation of Mø. Cells harvested from a 10-cmø tissue culture dish at over-confluence were seeded in a 10-cmø bacteriological Petri dish (As One, Osaka, Japan) containing 10 mL DMEM-FBS. After one to a few days, when the Mø selectively adhered onto the dish surface and stromal cells formed aggregates floating in the medium, the cells were washed with conditioned media to remove cell aggregates. The adherent cells were then detached by 5 mL of 5 mM EDTA in 10 mM HEPES-buffered HBSS (HEPES-HBSS) at 37 °C for 10–15 min followed by pipetting. The cell suspension was passed through a cell strainer (BD Falcon, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) to remove cell aggregates, sedimented at 220× g  for 5 min, suspended in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA; Sigma-Aldrich), 2 mM EDTA, and 0.0
===== PMC7119569 =====
L1:Isolation and functional studies on feline bone marrow derived macrophages
===== PMC7119896 =====
L1:Bone-marrow derived macrophages as targets for the replication of mouse hepatitis virus type 3
===== PMC7874634 =====
L14:Phagocytosis of early or late  Plasmodium falciparum  gametocytes was evaluated through methanol fixed cytospin preparations of immortalized mouse C57Bl/6 bone marrow-derived macrophages treated for 2 h with  P. falciparum  and stained with Giemsa, and it was confirmed through a standardized bioluminescent method using the transgenic  P. falciparum  3D7elo1-pfs16-CBG99 strain. Activation was evaluated by measuring nitric oxide or cytokine levels in the supernatants of immortalized mouse C57Bl/6 bone marrow-derived macrophages treated with early or late gametocytes.
L16:The results showed that murine bone marrow-derived macrophages can phagocytose both early and late gametocytes, but only the latter were able to induce the production of inflammatory mediators, specifically nitric oxide and the cytokines tumour necrosis factor and macrophage inflammatory protein 2.
L20:Malaria; Plasmodium falciparum  gametocytes; Immortalized mouse C57Bl/6 bone marrow-derived macrophages; Phagocytosis; Nitric oxide; Tumour necrosis factor-alpha; Macrophage inflammatory protein 2
L32:Immortalized mouse C57Bl/6 BM-derived macrophages (BMDM) from wild type lineage were kindly provided by Drs. Douglas Golenbock and Kate Fitzgerald, UMASS (MA, USA) [ 26 ,  27 ].  Mycoplasma -free BMDM were maintained in Dulbecco’s minimal essential medium (DMEM) complemented with 2 mM L-glutamine, 20 mM HEPES, and 10 % heat-inactivated FBS, as previously reported. The cultures were maintained at 37 °C in an atmosphere with 5 % CO 2 .
L38:Incubation of immortalized mouse C57Bl/6 bone marrow-derived macrophages with GCT
L44:BMDM were seeded in 24-well plates (2.5 × 10 5 /well in 600 µl), incubated with GCT, and then detached by trypsinization. Cells were centrifuged and cytospin was performed to spot cells onto slides. Alternatively, cells were plated and treated with GCT in 16-well chamber slides previously treated with poly- l -lysine MW70000-150000 (0.1 mg/ml) to increase cell adhesion (Labtek®). Slides were fixed in absolute methanol and stained with a 0.4 % Giemsa solution (w/v) prepared in buffered methanol solution with stabilizers and diluted in a pH 6.5 buffer. Images were taken with an inverted microscope (Nikon Ti-S) at 1000× magnification (immersion oil 100x objective) and the digital camera Nikon Digital Sight.
L46:Determination of nitric oxide production by immortalized mouse C57Bl/6 bone marrow-derived macrophages
L48:Determination of cytokine/chemokine production by immortalized mouse C57Bl/6 bone marrow-derived macrophages
===== PMC8468995 =====
L21:Co-cultured lung tissue-resident Mø were separated from lung interstitial cells according to the method by Ogawa et al. [ 8 ]. Briefly, co-cultured, over-confluent cells up to four passages (usually 1−2 passages) were used for the separation of Mø. The over-confluent cells harvested from a 10-cm tissue-culture dish were seeded in a 5.5 cm or 10 cm bacteriological Petri dish (1-7484-01, As One) containing DMEM-FBS. After several hours to 1 day, when the Mø selectively adhered onto the dish surface and interstitial cells usually formed nonadherent cell aggregates in the dish, the adherent cells were washed with conditioned media to remove nonadherent cells and used for RT-PCR analysis. For phagocytosis analysis and flow cytometry, the adherent cells were detached with 5-mM EDTA in 10 mM HEPES-buffered HBSS (EDTA-HEPES-HBSS), followed by pipetting. The cell suspension was passed through a cell strainer (352235, BD Falcon, Franklin Lakes, NJ, USA) to remove the cell aggregates, and the
L36:The propagated Mø were separated from the other lung interstitial cells in co-culture based on their different adhesive property to bacteriological Petri dishes, in which only the Mø adhered to the dish. Within a few hours of seeding co-cultured over-confluent cells, small round/fusiform cells with a few cytoplasmic protrusions, i.e., Mø adhered to the dish surface ( Figure 1 G,H), and cell aggregates floating in the media were also evident. These cell aggregates could be easily removed by washing with conditioned media. The cell density of Mø was almost unchanged, with or without cell aggregates, in the dishes when the culture continued for a few days. We usually collected more than 1.5 × 10 6  adherent cells per 10-cm of bacteriological Petri dish and used them for analyses to determine the features of Mø. To examine the niche of lung Mø propagating in vitro, we collected lung interstitial cells other than Mø in the co-culture using a different detachment behaviour between the tw
L58:Figure 1 The propagation of lung tissue-resident Mø in co-culture and subculture with lung interstitial cells in tissue-culture dishes and their segregation on bacteriological Petri dishes. Right panels ( A , C , E , G ) and left panels ( B , D , F , H ) show the lung cells derived from BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice, respectively. ( A , B ): Primary lung cells cultured for the indicated days after seeding in a tissue-culture dish. ( C , D ): Lung cells after passage 1 conducted 1 day after seeding in a tissue-culture dish. ( E , F ): Lung cells after passage 1 conducted 7 days after seeding in a tissue-culture dish. ( G , H ): lung tissue-resident Mø in bacteriological Petri dishes. Mø selectively adhering to the dish surface and nonadherent cells forming cell aggregates in the ( H ) panel. Cell aggregates were removed by washing with a conditioned medium, as can be seen in the ( G ) panel.
===== PMC8669096 =====
L6:Macrophages are key innate immune cells involved in a broad spectrum of physiological and pathological processes. Macrophage depletion with clodronate-liposomes is commonly used to investigate  in vivo  functions of macrophages in mice. Here, we describe a protocol that combines the depletion of resident macrophages with the reconstitution of the mice with  in vitro  differentiated, lentivirus-transduced bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) in the context of an experimental sepsis model. This experimental strategy is easily adapted to other experimental designs.
L12:The depletion/reconstitution protocol that we describe here has several steps, including bone marrow (BM) cell preparation, lentiviral transduction of the BM cells , in vitro  differentiation of the BM cells into BMDMs, liposome-induced macrophage depletion in mice, reconstitution of the mice with lentivirus-transduced BMDMs, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge of the reconstituted mice. Because every step is time-sensitive, a careful coordination of each step is crucial for the success of the experiment.
L20:Preparation of L929 conditioned medium
L22:L929 is a mouse fibroblast line that secretes macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF), which is required for the differentiation of BMDMs from hematopoietic stem cells. Thus, L929 cell conditioned media are used to differentiate BMDMs (see  BMDM differentiation  step). 1. Culture L929 cells in complete DMEM ( Table 1 ) in 10-cm cell culture dishes at 37°C and 5% CO 2 . At about 80% confluency, replace the culture medium with fresh complete DMEM. Table 1 Complete DMEM medium Reagent Final concentration Amount for 500 mL FBS 10% 50 mL Penicillin-Streptomycin 1% 5 mL DMEM n/a to 500 mL Store at 4°C for up to 1 month Note:  If cells are seeded at 20% confluency initially, it usually takes 3 days to reach 80% confluency. 2. Three days after complete confluency, harvest the medium and then filtrate the medium through a 0.22 μm filter. The conditioned media can be aliquoted and stored at −80°C. Note:  Some cell death may occur at this time, but dead cells do not affect the quality of
L23:The concentration of M-CSF in the conditioned medium is critical for the successful differentiation of BMDMs in the following steps. Therefore, it is recommended that the quality of each batch of conditioned media to support  BMDM differentiation  be tested by pilot experiments.
L33:Figure 1 Preparation of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) (A) Mouse long bones before and after the marrow is flushed out. (B) Representative cell images at several critical time points.
L34:The color of the bone changes from dark red to white when the bone marrow is completely flushed out (see  Figure 1 A). Figure 1 Preparation of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) (A) Mouse long bones before and after the marrow is flushed out. (B) Representative cell images at several critical time points.
L38:In this protocol, we use lentivirus-mediated DNA transfer to modify the BM cells before they are differentiated to BMDMs ( Miller and Blystone, 2015 ). In our experiment, we transduced the BM cells with lentivirus that carries SOCS1 cDNA (SOCS1-Lentivirus), using GFP-lentivirus as control ( Du et al., 2020 ). We found that transducing BM precursor cells is more effective to deliver the gene into BMDMs than directly transducing fully differentiated BMDMs. 12. Add the 1 mL BM cells (up to 2 × 10 6  cells) into a new 10-cm cell culture dish containing 6 mL of complete RPMI 1640. Note:  Usually 1–5 × 10 6  bone marrow cells can be obtained from one mouse, depending on the age and size of the mouse. 13. Thaw lentivirus stock solutions. To the lentivirus solution (0.1–0.2 mL) add polybrene to a final concentration of 6 μg/mL. Incubate at 25°C for 5 min. CRITICAL:  Polybrene is required to increase lentiviral transduction efficiency. The underlying principle is that Polybrene can neutrali
===== PMC9421540 =====
L13:Tissue-resident macrophages (TRMs) perform organ-specific functions that are dependent on factors such as hematopoietic origin, local environment, and biological influences. A diverse range of  in vitro  culture systems have been developed to decipher TRM functions, including bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived TRMs, or immortalized cell lines. However, despite the usefulness of such systems, there are notable limitations. Attempts to culture primary macrophages often require purification of cells and lack a high cell yield and consistent phenotype. Here, we aimed to address these limitations by establishing an organotypic primary cell culture protocol. We obtained long-term monocultures of macrophages derived from distinct organs without prior purification using specific growth factors and tissue normoxic conditions that largely conserved a TRM-like identity  in vitro . Thus, this organotypic system offers an ideal screening platfo
L15:macrophages; organotypic cell culture; tissue normoxia; Kupffer cells; microglia; alveolar macrophages; peritoneal macrophages; bone marrow-derived macrophages; tissue-resident macrophages
L18:Cell culture protocols have been developed to explore TRM function. Thus far, many studies have relied on bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), which do not per se represent TRM heterogeneity ( Bailey et al., 2020 ;  Stanley and Heard, 1977 ). Other approaches include oncogene-transformed cell lines ( Blasi et al., 1990 ;  Kreuzburg-Duffy and Macdonald, 1991 ), which allow an easy maintenance and a high cell yield, but often with an activated phenotype ( Bocchini et al., 1992 ;  Napoli et al., 2009 ). During the past decade, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and iPSC-derived organoids presented a novel opportunity to generate and study TRMs  in vitro  ( Lee et al., 2018 ;  Takata et al., 2017 ), although these challenging techniques require a high level of expertise and financial resources. Available  in vitro  protocols for primary TRMs rely on complex dissociation (e.g., enzymatic digestion) and purification steps (e.g., fluorescence activated cell sorting [FACS] or magne
L23:Figure 1 TRM-LCs are efficiently maintained in culture by a combination of supportive culture coating, specific medium supplementation, and tissue normoxic oxygen levels (A) Isolation protocol for TRM-LCs from brain, liver, peritoneum, and lung. RBC, red blood cell. (B) Absolute cell numbers of MG-LCs (yellow), KC-LCs (green), PM-LCs (pink), and AM-LC (blue) after 2 weeks in culture. Mean ± SEM is shown; cells per culture flask are shown, n = 8–17/group. (C) Bright-field images of BMDMs (upper row) and AM-LCs (lower row) are shown from day (D) 3, 6, 12, and 16 in the Incucyte system. One of two independent experiments is shown. Scale bars, 50 μm. See also  Figure S1  and  Videos S1  and  S2 .
L24:We generated MG-like cells (MG-LCs), KC-like cells (KC-LCs), AM-like cells (AM-LCs), and PM-like cells (PM-LCs) by plating single-cell suspensions of their respective organs ( Figure 1 A;  STAR Methods ). To verify the cellular composition of the obtained cell pellets for culture ( Figure S1 ), we found that the main myeloid populations included in the cell pellets were TRMs, except for the cell pellet of the liver, where granulocytes were more abundant ( Figure S1 B). Cells from each organ were plated in PEI-coated tissue culture flasks ( Figure 1 A), where the PEI coating effectively eliminated contaminating host cells and supported monocultures of TRM-LCs within 14 days. Figure 1 TRM-LCs are efficiently maintained in culture by a combination of supportive culture coating, specific medium supplementation, and tissue normoxic oxygen levels (A) Isolation protocol for TRM-LCs from brain, liver, peritoneum, and lung. RBC, red blood cell. (B) Absolute cell numbers of MG-LCs (yellow), 
L26:To follow the culture development, we imaged AM-LCs compared with BMDMs over the course of 2 weeks after the partial medium change with an Incucyte system ( Figure 1 C). As the Incucyte system must be utilized at atmospheric oxygen levels, AM-LCs were imaged here. BMDMs reached confluence after 7 days, with all cells acquiring characteristic macrophage morphology ( Figure 1 C;  Video S1 ). In contrast, AM-LCs took much longer to develop into densely populated cultures. After an initially low amount of cell seedings and a high abundance of cell debris, cells that resembled macrophages appeared a few days post plating and proliferated in clusters ( Figure 1 C;  Video S2 ). After 16 days, AM-LCs were seen with typical macrophage morphology and the cells did not expand further.
L27:Video S1. Time lapse of cultured BMDMs over 2 weeks in the Incucyte system, related to Figure 1 Bright-field images were taken every 2 h. One of two independent experiments is shown. Scale bar, 400 μm.
L39:As expected, MG-LCs expressed  HexB  and  Fcrls  at elevated levels compared with all other TRM-like cultures ( Figure S3 C), KC-LCs expressed  Id3  and  Nr1h3  at significantly higher levels compared with other cultured populations ( Figure S3 D), PM-LCs expressed  Tgfb2  at a significantly higher level compared with other TRM-LCs but not significantly elevated levels of  Cebpb  ( Figure S3 E), and AM-LCs showed a significantly higher expression of  Car4  and  Siglecf  compared with the other TRM-LCs ( Figure S3 F). To exclude that these signature genes were not artificially induced by the different culture conditions of the TRM-LCs, we cultured BMDMs in the respective culture conditions and analyzed again signature gene expression ( Figures S3 G–S3J). Here, we could not detect the induction of specific TRM gene signatures in BMDMs through the applied culture conditions ( Figures S4 G–S4J), reinforcing that the gene expression profiles were rather a result of their host tissue ori
