L1:Extracellular Vesicles From Bone Marrow‐Derived Macrophages Enriched in ARG1 Enhance Microglial Phagocytosis and Haematoma Clearance Following Intracerebral Haemorrhage
L38:Microglial phagocytosis of haematomas is crucial for neural functional recovery following intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH), a process regulated by various factors from within and outside the central nervous system (CNS). Extracellular vesicles (EVs), significant mediators of intercellular communication, have been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis and progression of CNS diseases. However, the regulatory role of endogenous EVs on the phagocytic capacity of microglia post‐ICH remains elusive. Utilising multi‐omics analysis of brain tissue‐derived EVs proteomics and single‐cell RNA sequencing, this study identified that bone marrow‐derived macrophages (BMDMs) potentially enhance microglial phagocytosis via EVs following ICH. By blocking BMDMs and reducing ARG1 in BMDM‐derived EVs, we demonstrated that BMDMs facilitate erythrophagocytosis by delivering ARG1 to microglia via EVs post‐ICH. EVs‐carried ARG1 was found to augment phagocytosis by promoting RAC1‐dependent cytoskeletal remodelling in microglia. Collectively, this research uncovers an intercellular communication pathway from BMDMs to microglia mediated by EVs post‐ICH. This provides a novel paradigm for EV‐mediated intercellular communication mechanisms and suggests a promising therapeutic potential for BMDM‐derived EVs in the treatment of ICH.
L40:ARG1; BMDM; EVs; ICH; microglia; phagocytosis
L46:In this study, we explored the influence of EVs within the CNS on microglial erythrophagocytosis and haematoma regression post‐ICH. Utilising multiomic analysis, which combined EVs protein profiling and single‐cell RNA sequencing of brain tissue, we discovered that BMDMs are actively involved in the production of EVs following ICH. Impeding BMDMs resulted in a weakening of microglial erythrophagocytosis and a deceleration of haematoma clearance. We observed that after ICH, the ARG1‐enriched EVs derived from BMDMs were found in brain tissue EVs comparing to the Sham group. ARG1 is typically highly expressed in pro‐resolving macrophages, which predominate during the subacute and chronic phases of injury, and are involved in the conversion of arginine to ornithine from protein degradation in apoptotic cells. In contrast, in pro‐inflammatory macrophages, which are prevalent during the acute phase of injury, arginine is primarily metabolised by inducible nitric oxide synthase to produce NO (Erwig and Henson  2008 ). Research on arterial plaques has demonstrated that phagocytes can utilise ornithine to synthesise putrescine during the clearance of apoptotic cells, thereby promoting continual endocytosis through the putrescine‐DBL pathway (Yurdagul et al.  2020 ). Our study confirmed that ARG1 within BMDM‐derived EVs facilitates the continual phagocytic activity of microglia. Collectively, these findings underscore the pivotal role of ARG1‐mediated erythrocyte phagocytosis by BMDM via EVs delivery in ICH‐induced haematoma resolution and functional restoration. This research establishes EVs as a critical intercellular communication mediator in the aftermath of ICH and suggests the potential therapeutic utility of BMDM‐EVs‐based strategies to enhance haematoma clearance in the treatment of ICH.
L56:BMDMs were extracted from the femurs of adult mice. Briefly, after cervical dislocation of adult mice, bilateral femurs were immediately isolated and placed in HBSS buffer. Both ends of the femurs were cut off, and the marrow cells were flushed out using a 5 mL syringe with HBSS buffer, repeating the process three times for each femur. After centrifuging at 300 ×  g  for 5 min, RBCs were lysed using RBC lysis buffer (Invitrogen, 00‐4333‐57, USA). The cell suspension was filtered through a 40 µm cell strainer, centrifuged again to obtain the cell pellets, and then resuspended in DMEM culture medium (Gibco, 11965092, USA) containing 20 ng/mL M‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐02, USA) and 20 ng/mL GM‐CSF (Peprotech, #315‐03, USA) and 10% FBS before being seeded into cell culture flasks. Three days later, the medium was completely replaced to remove non‐adherent cells, and subsequently, half of the medium was changed every 3 days.
L59:BMDM‐EVs were extracted from BMDM conditional culture medium following MISEV2018 and MISEV2023 guidelines and protocol as previously described (Wang et al.  2024 ). In brief, mature BMDMs were gently washed for three times with PBS to remove dead cells or impurities. Replace the medium with a complete culture medium that has been pre‐treated with ultracentrifugation to remove EVs from FBS. After culturing for 96 h, collect the culture medium for subsequent sequential ultracentrifugation, using the same parameters and procedures as previously described for the extraction of tissue‐derived EVs.
L78:Bone Marrow Macrophages Clearance
L79:The method of clearing bone marrow macrophages with busulfan was previously published (Peake et al.  2015 ). In brief, busulfan powder (MedChemExpress, HY‐B0245, USA) was dissolved in DMSO (Sigma‐Aldrich, D2650, USA) to prepare a 12 mg/mL stock solution, which was aliquoted and stored at −20°C. Before each injection, the stock solution was diluted with sterile water to a working concentration of 6 mg/mL. The injection was completed within 10 min. Starting 7 days before the planned model construction, the drug was administered intraperitoneally every 2 days, with a dose of 20 mg busulfan per kilogram of body weight. Mice in the Vehicle control group received an equivalent volume of DMSO and sterile water mixture.
L94:RNA extraction and qRT‐PCR was performed as previously described (Zhang et al.  2020 ). We utilised a Rneasy Plus Micro kit (Qiagen, 74034, USA) to extract total RNA from flow cytometry‐sorted microglial cells (MG) and BMDMs. The extraction process was conducted strictly according to the manufacturer's instructions. After extraction, the RNA was transcribed into cDNA using a quantitative PCR‐specific reverse transcription kit (Takara, RR047A, Japan). Subsequently, the transcript levels of  Arg1  and  Actb  in each sample were quantitatively analysed using TB Green Premix Ex Taq reagent (Takara, RR420A, Japan) and the LightCycler 480 real‐time fluorescence quantitative PCR system (Roche, LightCycler 480, USA). Each sample was repeated in three technical replicates, and relative quantification was performed based on the Ct values. The primer sequences for  Arg1  and  Actb  are provided in  Supporting Information: Table .
L98:We have procured a custom lentivirus (LV‐Arg1‐RNAi) from Shanghai GeneChem Co., Ltd. ( www.genechem.com.cn ) to infect primary BMDMs cultured in vitro, with the aim of interfering with the expression of ARG1 in these cells. In summary, after the primary BMDMs were extracted and cultured for 6 days, in a P2 laboratory setting, a complete culture medium containing 10% FBS and 4% virus infection enhancement solution (GeneChem, HitransG A, China) was prepared. Subsequently, the lentivirus solution was added at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 5, and the culture medium in the flask was replaced. The cells were then incubated in an incubator for an additional 72 h, during which, over 80% of the cells exhibited green fluorescence under a fluorescence microscope. The culture medium was then replaced with a complete medium supplemented with 2 µg/mL puromycin (Beyotime Biotechnology, ST551‐10 mg, China), and the cells were further cultured for 3 days to obtain a pure population of BMDMs with reduced ARG1 expression.
L114:Proteomic Analysis and Single‐Cell Sequencing Reveal That EVs Mediating Enhanced Microglial Erythrophagocytosis After ICH Originate From BMDMs
L116:FIGURE 2 Proteomic profiling and single‐cell sequencing revealing BMDMs are the source of characteristic proteins in ICH‐EVs. (a) Distance mapping of proteins using Pearson's correlation coefficient between Sham‐EVs and ICH‐EVs, indicating good homogeneity within sample groups. (b) Venn diagrams illustrating the convergence and noncongruence of proteins. (c) Heatmap showing the abundance of the top 15 proteins with non‐null values in at least two out of three replicate experiments in the ICH‐EVs group, whereas all data in the Sham‐EVs group were null. (d) GO annotation analysis of genes corresponding to proteins detected only in ICH‐EVs, the top 10 annotations of genes in BP and MF are shown. (e) tSNE plot of single‐cell sequencing results from brain tissue samples of sham and HS mice, overlaid with blue representing the Sham group and orange representing the HS group. (f) Relative proportions of various cell populations in the single‐cell sequencing of sham and HS groups. (g) Sankey diagram illustrating the correspondence between characteristic proteins in ICH‐EVs proteomics and characteristic genes in cell populations from single‐cell sequencing. ARG1 and NOX2 proteins detected in ICH‐EVs are characteristic markers of the BMDM cell population. Proteins marked in grey correspond to genes that did not have a corresponding characteristic cell population in brain tissue single‐cell sequencing. (h) Dot plot depicting selected genes in various cell populations from single‐cell sequencing. Size indicates expression proportion, and color indicates the scaled mean expression level. (i) Flow cytometry analysis of the distribution of LYM, NEUT, BMDM and MG subpopulations in the CD45+ population from brain tissue of sham and ICH mice on tSNE plots. (j–k) Distribution of BMDM subpopulations in the CD45+ population from brain tissue of sham (j) and ICH (k) mice on tSNE plots. (l) Flow cytometry validation of changes in the relative proportions of LYM, NEUT, BMDM and MG subpopulations before and after ICH.
L118:EVs can be produced by almost all cell types. To identify the source of the ‘novel components’ that enhance microglial erythrophagocytosis, we processed single‐cell sequencing data from sham‐operated and haemorrhagic stroke (HS) mice for dimensionality reduction (Figure  S3a,b ). We found that the brains of sham‐operated mice had almost no neutrophils (NEUT) or BMDMs, whereas these cell populations were more prevalent in the brains of haemorrhagic stroke mice (Figure  2e,f  and  S3b,c ). We validated the changes in cell subpopulations suggested by single‐cell sequencing through dimensionality reduction analysis of CD45+ cells in the brain tissue of mice using flow cytometry (Figures  2i  and  S4a ). In the brain tissue of sham‐operated mice, there were almost no BMDM cells, whereas a significant number of BMDM cells were observed in the brain tissue of mice with ICH (Figure  2j–l ). In addition, the changes in the cell proportions of microglia (MG), NEUT and lymphocytes (LYM) before and after haemorrhage were also consistent with the results of single‐cell sequencing (Figure  S4b–d ).
L119:By comparing the specific proteins in ICH‐EVs with the characteristic genes of cell populations identified in the single‐cell sequencing data (genes with mRNA abundance more than twice as high in one cell population than in any other), we found that among the 15 most abundant unique proteins in ICH‐EVs, ARG1 and NOX2 (gene name  cybb ) were characteristic proteins of the BMDM population, A2M was characteristic of the oligodendrocyte population, and PPP1R14A was characteristic of the PC population (Figure  2g,h ).
L120:These results suggest that following ICH, the BMDM cell population most likely contributes EVs or proteins that enhance the phagocytic function of microglial cells.
L121:Deficiency of BMDM Attenuates Microglial Erythrophagocytosis and Delays Haematoma Clearance and Neurological Recovery
L122:Busulfan, a myelosuppressive agent primarily used for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, has been employed in animal studies to establish myeloablation models or to prepare for bone marrow transplantation (O'Marcaigh and Betcher  1996 ). To assess the impact of BMDM‐derived EVs on the erythrophagocytic activity of microglial cells, we induced ICH in mice following myeloablation with busulfan and evaluated the residual haematoma, neurological recovery, and the erythrophagocytosis of microglia (Figures  3a  and  S5 ).
L123:FIGURE 3 Impaired erythrophagocytosis of microglia, delayed haematoma clearance and neurological recovery in mice lacking BMDMs. (a) Experimental workflow to investigate the effects of BMDM depletion on haematoma clearance, neurological recovery, and microglial erythrophagocytosis following ICH in mice. Mice were intraperitoneally injected with busulfan to eliminate bone marrow cells, subjected to ICH modelling, and then assessed for neurological function, residual haematoma volume and microglial phagocytosis of RBCs at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. (b) Representative images of coronal brain sections from mice at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH, showing residual haematomas. Scale bar, 5 mm. (c) Quantification of residual haematoma volume at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.05, ns, not significant. (d) Quantification of residual haematoma index at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (e) Quantification of residual haemoglobin levels in the mouse brain. Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (f–i) Statistical graphs of neurological dysfunction assessments using the cylinder test. (f), forelimb placing test (g), cornering test (h) and rotarod test (i). Data are presented as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.01, ns, not significant. (j) Representative histogram of the FITC channel from flow cytometry analysis of RBC phagocytosis by microglia isolated from the injured hemisphere of sham‐operated and 7‐day post‐ICH mice, with the Negative group representing microglia not co‐cultured with CFSE‐labelled RBCs as a negative control. (k) Violin plot of the phagocytic ratio of microglia isolated from sham‐operated and 7‐day post‐ICH mice in the RBCs phagocytosis assay. Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001, ns, not significant. (l) Phagocytic index of microglia. Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001, ns, not significant. (m) Representative images of coronal brain sections from wild‐type (WT) and Ccr2 −/−  mice at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH, showing residual haematomas. Scale bar, 5 mm. (n‐o) Quantification of residual haematoma volume (n) and residual haematoma index. (o) In WT and Ccr2 −/−  mice at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.05, ns, not significant. (p) Quantification of residual haemoglobin levels in the brain of wild‐type and Ccr2 −/−  mice at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH. Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, *** p  < 0.001, ns, not significant.
L126:Following ICH, the clearance of the haematoma within the brain tissue primarily relies on the phagocytic activity of microglial cells and peripheral infiltrating macrophages. We used magnetic bead sorting and in vitro RBCs co‐culture phagocytosis assays to assess the impact of BMDM deficiency on the erythrophagocytic function of microglial cells (Figure  S6a,b ). The sham group represented the baseline level of erythrocyte phagocytosis by microglial cells under non‐injury stress conditions, and busulfan pretreatment did not affect the phagocytic activity of microglial cells. The phagocytic activity of microglia in the intracerebral haemorrhage group did not significantly differ from that in the sham group 1 day post‐haemorrhage (Figure  S6c–e ). However, by the 3th day post‐ICH, microglia in the vehicle group exhibited a heightened erythrophagocytic capacity compared to the sham group, while the Busulfan group showed no significant difference in microglial erythrophagocytisis when compared to the sham group, and this activity was lower than vehicle group. (Figure  S6f–h ). By the 7th day post‐ICH, microglial erythrophagocytisis in both the vehicle and Busulfan groups were higher than that of the sham group. Notably, the Busulfan group demonstrated a lower level of phagocytic activity compared to the vehicle‐treated group following ICH (Figure  3j–l ).
L127:In addition to pharmacological methods, we used Ccr2 −/−  knockout mice, in which monocytes have an impaired ability to egress from the bone marrow. The Ccr2 −/−  mice had larger residual haematomas at 3 and 7 days post‐ICH compared to wild‐type mice (Figure  3m–o ), and the levels of residual haemoglobin in the haemorrhagic hemisphere were higher than in wild‐type mice (Figure  3p ).
L128:These findings indicate that following ICH, the BMDMs can enhance the erythrophagocytosis of microglial cells and directly or indirectly promote the process of haematoma clearance and the recovery from neurological deficits. Based on previous studies, we speculate that BMDMs may facilitate the erythrophagocytic activity of microglial cells through EVs as a medium of intercellular communication.
L129:BMDM‐Derived EVs Enhance Microglial Erythrophagocytosis
L130:We initially investigated the impact of BMDMs on the ARG1 levels in microglia using an in vitro Transwell coculture system. PMGs were seeded in the upper chamber of the Transwell insert, whereas BMDMs were plated in the lower chamber (Figure  S7a–c ). Following 96 h of coculture, approximately 1% of the PMGs became ARG1‐positive (Figure  S7d ). Moreover, the PMGs cocultured with BMDMs exhibited a higher mean fluorescence intensity of ARG1 (Figure  S7e ).
L131:To investigate whether BMDM‐derived EVs (BMDM‐EVs) are the EVs in the brain tissue after ICH that enhance the phagocytic function of microglial cells, we extracted EVs from the culture medium of BMDMs using sequential ultracentrifugation. TEM imaging revealed a typical concave cup‐shaped structure (Figure  4a ), and NTA showed that the particle size of BMDM‐EVs was approximately 100–200 nm (Figure  4b ). Western blotting demonstrated the presence of typical EV markers in BMDM‐EVs (Figure  4c ).
L132:FIGURE 4 BMDM‐EVs enhance microglial phagocytic capacity and reduces residual haematoma in myeloablation mice following ICH. (a) Schematic of the procedure for extracting EVs from cultured BMDM cells and representative TEM image of BMDM‐EVs. Scale bar, 100 nm. (b) Particle size distribution of BMDM‐EVs as determined by NTA. (c) Western blot showing the presence of ALIX, CD63, ACTIN and CD9 in BMDM cells and EVs. (d) Representative fluorescence images of PMG treated with PBS or BMDM‐EVs and phagocytosing fluorescently labelled RBCs. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Red: PKH26‐labelled RBCs, Green: Fluorescein‐conjugated Lectin antibody‐labelled PMG. Scale bar, 50 and 10 µm. (e) Violin plot showing the fluorescence intensity of RBCs phagocytosed by individual PMG in the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM, **** p  < 0.0001. (f) Violin plots showing the phagocytic index of each PMG, represented as RBC Intensity per unit area of PMG (PKH26 Intensity/LECTIN Area) ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM. **** p  < 0.0001. (g) Quantification of residual RBCs in the culture media of PMG from the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 6). Data are shown as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01. (h) Quantification of residual haemoglobin in the culture media of PMG from each group ( n  = 6). Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001. (i) Schematic of the in vivo validation of BMDM‐EVs‐enhanced microglial erythrophagocytosis. Mice were first treated with busulfan to deplete bone marrow cells, then subjected to ICH modelling, and received daily tail vein injections of PBS or BMDM‐EVs. After 7 days, the residual haematoma and microglial phagocytic function were assessed. (j) Representative fluorescence images showing microglial cell in brain tissue sections have taken up PKH67 membrane dye‐labelled EVs. Scale bar, 5 µm. 3D‐Remodel images of microglial cell containing PKH67‐labelled EVs. Scale bar, 2 µm. (k) Histogram from flow cytometry showing the phagocytic intensity of sorted microglial cells from the brains of mice treated with PBS or BMDM‐EVs 7 days after ICH. (l) Representative images of brain coronal sections from mice treated with PBS or BMDM‐EVs. Scale bar, 5 mm. (m) Quantification of residual haematoma volume in the brains of mice. Data are shown as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.05. (n) Relative levels of haemoglobin remaining in the haemorrhagic brain hemisphere of mice 7 days after ICH. Data are shown as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.05. (o–p) Flow cytometry analysis of the phagocytic ratio (o) and phagocytic index (p) of sorted microglial cells from the brains of mice treated with PBS or BMDM‐EVs 7 days after ICH, in the in vitro RBC phagocytosis assay. Data are shown as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, *** p  < 0.001.
L133:We first examined the effect of BMDM‐EVs on the erythrophagocytosis activity of primary microglial cells in vitro. Fluorescence imaging analysis showed that BMDM‐EVs increased the fluorescence intensity of RBCs internalised by microglial cells in co‐culture phagocytosis experiments (Figure  4d–f ). Counts of residual RBCs and haemoglobin assays in the culture medium indicated that there were fewer residual RBCs and lower levels of haemoglobin in the BMDM‐EVs group compared to PBS group (Figure  4g,h ). These results suggest that BMDM‐EVs enhance the ability of primary microglial cells to uptake RBCs.
L134:We further validated the function of BMDM‐EVs in the mouse model of ICH. To exclude the influence of BMDMs, we first performed myeloablation with busulfan. After establishing the ICH model in mice, we injected BMDM‐EVs into the mice via tail vein. We labelled the EVs with PKH67 and DIR fluorescent dyes to visualise their entry into the CNS. Immunofluorescence imaging of frozen brain sections showed aggregation of EVs within the haematoma cavity and enrichment in the peri‐haematoma region (Figure  S8a–c ). Immunofluorescence also revealed a significant presence of PKH67‐labelled BMDM‐EVs within microglial cells (Figures  4j  and  S9 ). In vivo bioluminescence imaging detected DIR fluorescence signals at the site of haemorrhagic injury in mice (Figure  S8d,e ), indicating that tail vein‐injected BMDM‐EVs can cross the BBB, particularly accumulating in the haemorrhagic injury area, possibly due to the disruption of the BBB by the injury.
L135:We further explored the effects of BMDM‐EVs treatment on the erythrophagocytosis function of microglial cells and haematoma clearance in the brains of mice post‐ICH. Haematoma image analysis revealed that mice treated with BMDM‐EVs had less residual haematoma in their brain tissue (Figures  4l,m  and  S10a ). BMDM‐EVs also reduced the levels of residual haemoglobin in the brain tissue at 7 days post‐ICH (Figure  4n ). Moreover, we isolated microglial cells from the brain tissue of mice in both groups using magnetic beads sorting and conducted RBCs co‐culture phagocytosis experiments. The results showed that BMDM‐EVs increased the phagocytic ratio of microglial cells and the phagocytic index for fluorescently labelled RBCs (Figure 4k,o,p). Behavioural tests at 1, 3 and 7 days post‐ICH demonstrated improved neurological function in mice treated with BMDM‐EVs compared to the PBS group at the same time points (Figure  S10b–e ).
L136:Arginase1 in BMDM‐EVs is the Key Protein Enhance Microglial Erythrophagocytosis
L137:By comparing the characteristic genes of BMDM cells identified in single‐cell sequencing with the characteristic proteins of ICH‐EVs detected in EVs proteomics, we found that ARG1 and NOX2 were predominantly derived from BMDM cells and specifically present in the EVs within the brain tissue post‐ICH (Figure  S11a ). Western blotting results confirmed this (Figure  5a,b ).
L138:FIGURE 5 ARG1 in BMDM‐EVs promote microglial phagocytosis of RBCs. (a) Western blot analysis showing the protein levels of ALIX, ARG1, CD63, ACTIN and CD9 in EVs extracted from the haemorrhagic brain of mice at 1, 3, and 7 days post‐ICH. (b) Quantitative analysis of the gray intensity of ARG1 in the EVs by Western blot ( n  = 6), Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001, ns, not significant. (c) qRT‐PCR analysis of the relative expression levels of  Arg1  mRNA in microglial cells from the haemorrhagic brain tissue of mice pre‐treated with Vehicle or Busulfan ( n  = 6), Data are presented as mean ± SD. ns, not significant. (d) Flow cytometry analysis of the mean fluorescence intensity of ARG1 protein in microglial cells from the haemorrhagic brain tissue of mice pre‐treated with Vehicle or Busulfan ( n  = 6), Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001, ns, not significant. (e) Pearson correlation coefficient analysis of the phagocytic index and MFI of ARG1 and NOX2 in microglial cells from the haemorrhagic brain tissue of mice pre‐treated with Vehicle or Busulfan. (f) Schematic summary illustrating the impact of recruited BMDM in Vehicle‐treated mice and Busulfan‐treated mice on microglia post‐ICH. Normal mice recruit BMDM delivering EVs containing ARG1 to microglia, enhancing their phagocytic clearance of RBCs, while Busulfan‐treated mice lack BMDMs, resulting in reduced microglial erythrophagocytosis. (g) Immunofluorescence images of microglia (TMEM119 positive) in frozen brain sections of mice 7 days post‐ICH, showing the ARG1 intensity. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Red: AF555‐labelled ARG1 protein, Gray: AF647‐labelled TMEM119. Scale bar, 10 µm. (h) Quantification of MFI of Arg1 in microglial cells ( n  = 30), Data are presented as median ± SEM. **** p  < 0.0001. (i) Representative fluorescence images of microglial cells treated with Ctrl‐EVs or ShArg1‐EV phagocytosing fluorescently labelled RBCs. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Red: PKH26‐labelled RBCs, Green: Fluorescein‐conjugated Lectin antibody‐labelled PMG. Scale bar, 50 and 10 µm. (j) Violin plots showing the fluorescence intensity of RBCs phagocytosed by individual PMG in the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM. **** p  < 0.0001. (k) Violin plots showing the phagocytic index of each PMG, represented as RBC Intensity per unit area of PMG (PKH26 Intensity/LECTIN Area) ( n  = 300). Data are presented as median ± SEM. **** p  < 0.0001. (l) Quantification of residual RBCs in the culture medium of PMG from the PBS and BMDM‐EVs treatment groups ( n  = 6). Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001. (m) Quantification of residual haemoglobin in the culture media of PMG from each group ( n  = 6). Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001.
L139:We performed quantitative PCR (qPCR) on microglial cells and BMDM cells sorted by flow cytometry and found that the  Arg1  mRNA levels in microglial cells from both the vehicle control group and the busulfan‐pretreated group did not significantly change before and up to 7 days post‐ICH. However, the  Arg1  mRNA levels in BMDM cells sorted from the vehicle control group's brain tissue showed a increase post‐ICH, and were significantly higher than those in microglial cells at the same time points (Figures  5c  and  S11b ). Furthermore, we detected the levels of ARG1 and NOX2 proteins in microglial cells and BMDM cells using flow cytometry. In the vehicle control group, the ARG1 level in microglial cells increased at 3 days post‐ICH, whereas the ARG1 level in microglial cells from the busulfan‐pretreated group showed no significant change and was significantly lower than that in the vehicle control group (Figure  5d ). The NOX2 level in microglial cells showed no significant change in both the vehicle control and busulfan groups (Figure  S11c ). At 3 days post‐ICH, the ARG1 level in BMDM was higher than that at 1 day post‐ICH, and at 7 days post‐ICH, the ARG1 fluorescence intensity in BMDM was higher than at 3 days post‐ICH (Figure  S11d, e ). Additionally, we detected the phagocytic function of microglial cells using flow cytometry and found that the ability of microglial cells to phagocytose RBCs correlated positively with the ARG1 level, while the NOX2 level showed no significant correlation with phagocytic ability (Figure  5e ). Moreover, immunofluorescence imaging of frozen brain sections showed that the ARG1 fluorescence intensity in microglial cells from the busulfan group was lower than that in the vehicle control group at 7 days post‐ICH (Figure  5g,h ). We further investigated the levels of ARG1 in microglia within different brain regions following ICH. Immunofluorescence results demonstrated that, at 7 days post‐ICH, the ARG1 levels in microglia of the ipsilateral perihaematoma region in the Vehicle group were higher than those in the corresponding region of the Busulfan group. Additionally, the ARG1 levels in microglia of the ipsilateral perihaematoma region in the Vehicle group were higher compared to both the ipsilateral non‐perihaematoma and contralateral non‐perihaematoma regions (Figure  S12a,b ).
L140:To investigate the potential impact of BMDM‐EVs on the translation of ARG1 protein in microglia, we utilised Cycloheximide (CHX), an inhibitor of eukaryotic protein synthesis, in an in vitro experimental setup. The findings revealed that exposure to BMDM‐EVs led to an increase in ARG1 levels within PMG cells. Additionally, even after inhibiting protein synthesis in PMGs with CHX, treatment with BMDM‐EVs still resulted in elevated ARG1 levels in PMGs (Figure  S13a ). This suggests that the elevation of ARG1 levels in microglia by BMDM‐EVs is independent of the translational machinery within the microglial cells themselves.
L141:To eliminate the interference from EVs derived from microglia, we employed the well‐established microglial depletion agent PLX5622 to deplete microglia in mice. After ICH modelling in four groups of mice, EVs were isolated from the haemorrhagic brain tissue at 7 days post‐ICH. Western blot analysis revealed that EVs from the control+vehicle group exhibited higher ARG1 levels at 7 days post‐ICH compared to those in the control+busulfan and PLX5622+busulfan groups. However, EVs from the PLX5622+vehicle group showed no significant difference in ARG1 levels compared to the control+vehicle group (Figure  S13b ). These findings suggest that BMDM‐EVs have a predominant influence on the ARG1 levels in brain tissue EVs following ICH.
L142:In this part of the study, we found that the phagocytic ability of microglial cells is positively correlated with their ARG1 protein level. Although the  Arg1  mRNA level in microglial cells showed no significant change post ICH, the protein level exhibited a trend of increase. The mRNA and protein levels of ARG1 in infiltrated BMDM cells within the brain tissue continuously increased from 1 to 7 days post‐ICH. Furthermore, EVs, as a key medium of intercellular communication, were found to contain ARG1 protein and the effects were blocked in the busulfan‐pretreated model. To exclude the interference of free ARG1, we detected the levels of ARG1 in interstitial fluid and serum using ELISA kits. The results showed no significant difference in the levels of ARG1 in these two fluids post‐ICH, and busulfan treatment did not affect the levels of free ARG1 in either (Figure  S11f,g ). In summary, we speculate that post‐ICH, BMDM cells highly express ARG1 protein, and load ARG1 into EVs for export. Microglial cells enhance their ARG1 levels and erythrophagocytic function by taking up BMDM‐EVs (Figure  5f ).
L143:To validate the role of ARG1 protein in BMDM‐EVs in promoting microglial erythrophagocytic function, we employed lentiviral infection to knock down the  Arg1  in primary cultured BMDM cells (Figure  S11h,j ). TEM revealed that the EVs derived from these BMDM cells exhibited typical vesicular structures with a particle size of approximately 100 nm (Figure  S11i ). Nanoflow cytometry results indicated that knocking down  Arg1  did not reduce the average particle size or concentration of EVs produced by BMDM cells (Figure  S8k,l ). Western blotting analysis confirmed that EVs produced by lentivirus‐infected BMDM cells still possessed typical EV markers, and the ARG1 protein level in the EVs from knockdown BMDM cells was significantly reduced (Figure  S11m ).
L147:Previous studies have demonstrated that following ICH, BMDM cells deliver ARG1 to microglial cells via EVs, thereby promoting the clearance of haematoma. We sought to elucidate how this exogenous ARG1 protein participates in the phagocytic process of RBCs by microglial cells. We noted that PMGs with enhanced phagocytic function exhibited a more elongated and branched morphology in our fluorescence imaging experiments. Previous research has reported that professional phagocytes, such as macrophages and microglial cells, can extend pseudopodia to perform phagocytosis, and the cell morphology is closely related to the dynamics of F‐actin. In cells with strong phagocytic function, F‐actin is well‐organised at the cell membrane edge and forms an F‐actin ring, with the phagocytosed material aligned along the actin‐dependent enhancement of the phagocytic cup or internalised within the ring (Mukai et al.  2021 ). We first examined the effect of ARG1 overexpression on PMGs morphology. We labelled the F‐actin of PMGs fully co‐cultured with RBCs (reaching a phagocytic dynamic equilibrium) with phalloidin and quantitatively assessed cell morphology using skeletonisation. The results showed that ARG1 overexpression increased the number of branches and junctions of PMGs at the phagocytic equilibrium state, as well as the volume of these branches (Figure  S14g–j ). PMGs treated with BMDM‐EVs derived from which ARG1 was knocked down exhibited fewer branches and junctions compared to the control BMDM‐EVs group, and the branch volume of Ctrl‐EVs‐treated PMGs was greater than that of ShArg1‐EVs‐treated PMGs (Figure  6a–d ).
L148:FIGURE 6 Arg1 in BMDM‐EVs enhances microglial erythrophagocytosis by promoting cytoskeleton remodelling. (a) Left column: Representative fluorescence images of PMG treated with Ctrl‐EVs or ShArg1‐EVs after phagocytosing RBCs, phalloidin labelled F‐actin. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Red: Phalloidin‐labelled F‐actin. Right column: Images processed for cytoskeletal morphology analysis using FIJI software. Scale bar, 50 µm. (b–d) Quantification of the average branch number (b), junction number (c), and slab volume (d) in PMG images ( n  = 9). Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, *** p  < 0.001. (e) Representative fluorescence images of PMGs overexpressing  Arg1  after phagocytosing RBCs and treated with PBS or RAC1 inhibitor W56 TFA and the relative images in cytoskeletal morphology analysis. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Red: Phalloidin‐labelled F‐actin. Scale bar, 50 µm. (f–h) Quantification of the average branch number (f), junction number (g), and slab volume (h) in Arg1OE PMGs fluorescence images ( n  = 9). Data are presented as mean ± SD. ** p  < 0.01, *** p  < 0.001. (i) Western blot analysis showing the expression of activated RAC1 and total RAC1 in PMG cells treated with different conditions. (j) Schematic of the procedure for assessing mRNA stability of  Mcf2  in microglial cells, with microglial cells treated in a well plate, co‐cultured with RBCs for 72 h, then treated with Actinomycin D to inhibit DNA transcription at different time points, and mRNA abundance of  Mcf2  was quantified by qRT‐PCR. (k) Relative abundance of  Mcf2  mRNA in microglial cells at different time points after Actinomycin D treatment. Data are presented as mean ± SD. *** p  < 0.001 PMG+Ctrl‐EVs versus PMG+ShArg1‐EVs. (l) Western blot showing the protein levels of DBL and ACTIN in PMG treated with different conditions. (m) Relative expression of DBL protein in PMGs treated with PBS, Ctrl‐EVs, and ShArg1‐EVs, Data are presented as mean ± SD. * p  < 0.05, *** p  < 0.001. (n) Western blot showing the protein levels of DBL and ACTIN in Arg1OE‐PMG treated with PBS or RAC1 inhibitor W56 TFA. (o) Representative immunofluorescence images of brain tissue sections from Busulfan‐treated mice 7 days post‐ICH treated with Ctrl‐EVs or ShArg1‐EVs. Scale bar, 20 µm. Blue: DAPI‐labelled nuclei, Green: AF488‐labelled TMEM119, Red: AF555‐labelled DBL. Arrows indicate microglial cells. (p) Violin plot showing the fluorescence intensity of DBL in microglial cells in the immunofluorescence images ( n  = 30). Data are presented as median ± SEM. **** p  < 0.0001.
L150:As a GTPase, the activation of Rac1 requires GEFs (Guanine nucleotide Exchange Factors). Previous studies have reported a connection between the actin rearrangement during phagocytosis in macrophages and the GEF, DBL (gene name  Mcf2 ) (Yurdagul et al.  2020 ). Therefore, we validated this pathway at both mRNA and protein levels. By using cytochalasin D to block DNA transcription in PMGs, we found that BMDM‐EVs extended the half‐life of  Mcf2  mRNA (Figure  6j,k ), resulting in increased levels of DBL protein within PMGs (Figure  6l,m ). Blocking RAC1 activity with W56 TFA did not affect the DBL protein levels in PMGs overexpressing ARG1 (Figures  6n  and  S14l ). In frozen brain sections of mice, we observed that DBL is widely expressed in the CNS, and in mice cleared of BMDM cells, the DBL levels in microglial cells treated with Ctrl‐EVs were higher than those in microglial cells treated with ShArg1‐EVs (Figure  6o,p ). Based on these results, we conclude that ARG1 in BMDM‐EVs enhances microglial erythrophagocytosis by increasing the stability of  Mcf2  mRNA, thereby maintaining the level of DBL. The high levels of DBL sustain the activity of the GTPase RAC1, leading to continuous actin remodelling and the maintenance of microglial phagocytic function against RBCs.
L151:Previous studies have reported that during the phagocytosis of apoptotic cells, intracellular ARG1 is involved in the metabolism of engulfed apoptotic cells, and increases the GEF of RAC1 to counteract the reduced activity of RAC1 due to the intracellular membrane reduction during the previous phagocytic process, thus optimising continual phagocytosis (Yurdagul et al.  2020 ; Schille et al.  2018 ). Our study also shows that BMDM‐EVs can increase the levels of ARG1 and DBL in microglia, whether in bone marrow‐depleted mouse brain or in vitro cultured PMGs. In contrast, BMDM‐EVs lacking ARG1 do not exhibit this effect, corresponding to a decrease in the activated RAC1 levels and phagocytic capacity. Therefore, our study demonstrates that following ICH, BMDM cells deliver ARG1 protein to microglial cells via EVs, which enhances the stability of  Mcf2  within microglial cells. This leads to an increase in the content of RAC1 GEF DBL, promoting RAC1‐dependent cytoskeletal remodelling and facilitating the phagocytic and clearance of haematoma by microglial cells (Figure  7 ).
L152:FIGURE 7 Schematic diagram of the mechanism by which BMDM promote microglial phagocytosis of haematoma through EVs‐mediated delivery of ARG1. In WT or vehicle control mice post‐ ICH, BMDMs release EVs carrying ARG1 protein, which assists microglial cells in phagocytosing erythrocytes or their lysate products within the haematoma. This leads to rapid clearance of intracerebral haematoma and rapid recovery of neurological function in mice. In contrast, Ccr2KO or Busulfan‐treated mice, which lack BMDMs or have depleted these cells, do not receive EVs containing ARG1. Consequently, microglial phagocytic capacity is deficient, leading to increased residual haematoma and delayed neurological recovery. Mechanistically, microglial phagocytosis of erythrocytes relies on the formation of phagosomes through membrane invagination, which requires a high level of activated RAC1 protein for cytoskeletal rearrangement. During continual phagocytosis, microglial cells maintain a dynamic balance with low RAC1 activity and slow cytoskeletal remodelling, resulting in low phagocytic efficiency. BMDM cells can enhance microglial phagocytic capacity by delivering ARG1 protein via EVs. This upregulates the stability of  Mcf2  mRNA, increasing the levels of RAC1‐specific GEF DBL, thereby enhancing the activity of activated RAC1 in microglial cells during the continual erythrophagocytosis. This promotes cytoskeletal remodellling and enhances the continual phagocytic capacity of microglia.
L154:In this study, we report a unidirectional intercellular communication based on EVs between macrophages and microglia. Our key findings are as follows: (1) Following ICH, bone marrow‐derived macrophages (BMDMs) generate EVs that enhance the phagocytic activity of microglia towards erythrocytes; (2) EVs derived from BMDMs elevate the levels of ARG1 in microglia, thereby augmenting erythrophagocytosis post‐ICH; (3) BMDM‐EVs deliver ARG1 to microglia, thereby potentiating erythrophagocytosis through Mcf2‐Dbl‐Rac1‐mediated cytoskeletal remodelling. These findings suggest a significant therapeutic potential of BMDM‐EVs in the treatment of ICH.
L155:The CNS is one of the most extensively studied systems regarding EVs. Due to their advantageous permeability across the BBB, EVs serve as crucial vectors for bioactive molecules. These molecules not only provide a reflective snapshot of the physiological state of the originating cell population, thereby facilitating diagnostic insights, but can also be strategically modified to act as delivery vehicles for therapeutic agents targeting the CNS (Han et al.  2023 ; Badhwar et al.  2024 ). This dual functionality underscores the significance of EVs in both diagnostic and therapeutic neurosciences. However, systematic research on brain‐derived EVs remains limited due to the lack of efficient methods for their isolation and characterisation. With the advancement of EVs isolation and purification techniques, as well as various high‐throughput detection and analysis methods, deeper investigations into tissue‐derived EVs have become feasible (Vella et al.  2017 ; Choi et al.  2015 ; Dixson et al.  2023 ; Zhang et al.  2023 ). For tissue‐derived EVs, clarifying their cellular origin is crucial. The most efficient approach is to compare the proteins detected in the EVs with the protein profiles of EVs from various cellular sources. In spite of earlier investigations into the immunocapture of brain cell‐derived EVs from patient plasma or serum, the identification of cell type‐specific EVs biomarkers is hampered by the scarcity of detailed EVs proteome datasets from brain samples, leading to a lack of consensus in the field (Delgado‐Peraza et al.  2023 ; You et al.  2022 ; Fiandaca et al.  2015 ). Therefore, we proposed a combined proteomics and single‐cell sequencing analysis method to screen for effector molecules and determine their cellular origins within the complex composition of brain‐derived EVs. We first compared the protein composition of brain‐derived EVs under Sham and ICH conditions using mass spectrometry‐based proteomics. Among the differential proteins, we specifically focused on those that are uniquely present in the brain tissue following ICH. By integrating single‐cell sequencing data from haemorrhagic stroke, we aimed to identify the cellular origins of these differential proteins. Ultimately, we report a ‘functional protein delivery model’ to describe how BMDMs deliver the key metabolic enzyme ARG1 to microglia via EVs post‐ICH, thereby promoting the clearance of brain haematoma.
L156:Microglial phagocytosis is the cornerstone of the natural compensatory response to brain injuries (Cai et al.  2019 ). During microglial phagocytosis, membrane invagination forms phagosomes, which, upon internalisation, recycle their membrane components and phagocytic receptors back to the plasma membrane to initiate the next round of phagocytosis (Heckmann et al.  2019 ; Lucin et al.  2013 ). This repetitive process in microglia is termed continual phagocytosis. In the chronic progression of Alzheimer's disease, microglia reach a saturation point in the clearance rate of amyloid‐beta (Aβ) through continual phagocytosis, which still falls short of the Aβ production rate, leading to Aβ deposition and AD progression (Ulland and Colonna  2018 ; Leng and Edison  2021 ; Wasen et al.  2024 ). In contrast, in mouse models of ICH, the haematoma, acting as a phagocytic target for microglia, is typically cleared within 2 weeks, and activated microglia largely return to a resting state within the same period (Lan et al.  2017 ). Interestingly, although microglia appear to face a heavier phagocytic burden post‐ICH, they seem to accomplish this more efficiently, suggesting a higher efficiency of continual phagocytosis in ICH compared to AD. While both diseases are closely related to microglial phagocytic function, the key difference is that post‐ICH, due to BBB disruption, a large number of macrophages infiltrate the brain tissue (Min et al.  2016 ), indicating an indispensable role of macrophages in the continual phagocytosis of microglia. In this study, we observed that following Busulfan‐mediated myeloablation in mice, the phagocytic function of sorted microglia from brain tissue was diminished. Microglia from mice treated with BMDM‐EVs recovered a strong phagocytic capacity towards erythrocytes, demonstrating that BMDM‐EVs can enhance the upper limit of microglial continual phagocytosis rate.
L157:In the context of atherosclerosis research, macrophages have been shown to enhance continual efferocytosis through the ARG1‐mediated metabolic pathway, which converts apoptotic cell‐derived arginine and ornithine into putrescine, thereby increasing Rac1 activity (Yurdagul et al.  2020 ). In our study, we also found that microglia treated with ARG1‐containing BMDM‐EVs exhibited enhanced RAC1 activity and erythrophagocytosis. A pertinent question arises from this process: why do microglia, as phagocytic cells, not enhance their continual efferocytosis by endogenously increasing ARG1 transcription and translation, but instead rely on BMDM‐EVs for ARG1 protein supply? We note the recent findings by Kodi S. Ravichandran and colleagues, who reported that phagocytes undergo transcriptional pause release during continuous efferocytosis and processing of apoptotic cells via endocytosis (Tufan et al.  2024 ). Transcriptional pause release refers to the initiation of transcription by RNA Pol II, which pauses after 20–60 nucleotides in the promoter‐proximal region of genes and remains paused until the next signal (Muse et al.  2007 ). Ravichandran's team identified that genes released from highly paused states during efferocytosis are associated with metabolic processes, cellular localisation within endosomes or wound response pathways, whereas genes with low pause states are primarily related to immune response pathways, such as cytokine production and chemokine binding. Based on these findings, we speculate that during continual efferocytosis, the transcription of the Arg1 gene in microglia may be highly paused, with a preference for transcribing genes related to inflammation or chemokines. Additionally, other studies suggest that as resident phagocytes of the brain parenchyma, microglia may be compromised in their phagocytic capacity due to hypoxia or toxic injury resulting from haemorrhage, whereas peripheral macrophages can be fully activated by brain injury signals (Ritzel et al.  2015 ; Yu et al.  2022 ). These mechanisms may explain why microglia rely on ARG1 delivered by BMDMs to enhance continual phagocytosis, hinting at a more intricate intercellular communication between microglia and BMDMs than previously understood. Future research could explore these mechanisms to elucidate the differential expression and intercellular communication between microglia and macrophages under pathological conditions.
L158:In this study, we employed magnetic beads sorting to isolate microglia and assess their erythrophagocytic function in vitro. We observed that the erythrophagocytic activity of microglia from the Vehicle group mice increased 3 days post‐ICH. Our findings, in conjunction with those of other researchers, indicate that following ICH, microglia are influenced by cytokines or intrinsic transcriptional regulation, leading to the upregulation of scavenger receptors such as CD36 and CD163 (Li et al.  2021 ; Zhuang et al.  2021 ; Leclerc et al.  2018 ; Dang et al.  2017 ), thereby enhancing the clearance of erythrocytes. However, we noted that the erythrophagocytic function of microglia in the Busulfan group did not significantly increase 3 days post‐ICH. This observation underscores the indispensable role of ARG1 delivered by BMDM‐EVs in promoting the continual phagocytic activity of microglia. The microglia isolated post‐ICH via magnetic bead sorting were already in a state of ‘phagocytic saturation’, suggesting that the phagocytic receptors on the microglial surface were fully engaged, and the rearrangement of the cytoskeleton became the rate‐limiting step for their sustained phagocytosis. The microglia in the Busulfan group, lacking ARG1 from BMDMs, exhibited a lower rate of cytoskeletal rearrangement, which limited their continual phagocytic process. In terms of the spatial relationship between the haematoma and microglia, we primarily isolated microglia from the ipsilateral hemisphere of the injured brain for flow cytometry analysis of phagocytic function. Immunofluorescence of frozen brain tissue sections revealed that microglia in the perihaematoma region had higher levels of ARG1 compared to those farther from the haematoma, with microglia in the contralateral non‐perihaematoma region exhibiting very low levels of ARG1. This pattern closely aligns with the distribution of infiltrating macrophages (Dasari, Bonsack, and Sukumari‐Ramesh  2021 ; Fu et al.  2021 ). These findings suggest that the upregulation of ARG1 in microglia may be due to the supply from nearby cells, akin to the proverbial ‘a water caltrop near the water gets the moonlight first’.
L159:Distinguishing microglia from macrophages in CNS research presents a significant challenge. This is due to their shared antigens, such as CX3CR1, CD11b and CD45 (Mass et al.  2016 ). Consequently, studies on ICH often categorise microglia and macrophages as a single cell type for research purposes (Jing et al.  2019 ; Cai et al.  2019 ). Recent research has discovered that microglia arise from embryonic yolk sac (YS) precursors (Ginhoux and Guilliams  2016 ). Microglia maintain their CNS population through self‐renewal, with minimal contribution from blood cells (Ajami et al.  2007 ; Hashimoto et al.  2013 ). Thus, microglia are developmentally and functionally distinct from blood‐associated myeloid cells, such as monocytes. The differing contributions of infiltrating and resident macrophage populations have been demonstrated in the pathogenesis of various mouse disease models (Ritzel et al.  2015 ; Ajami et al.  2011 ). There is a growing recognition that understanding the heterogeneity of myeloid cell activation states is crucial for elucidating the mechanisms of neurological pathology. Our research complements the understanding of functional differences between microglia and bone marrow‐derived macrophages in the context of acute brain injury.
L161:Although our study provides substantial evidence that BMDM‐EVs promote microglial phagocytic of haematoma by delivering ARG1 protein post‐ICH, there are still some limitations. (1) We did not track the biological process of BMDM‐EVs encapsulating ARG1 and delivering it to microglia in vivo in mice. Due to the lack of a reliable BMDM‐EVs labelling scheme, we have not been able to achieve in vivo tracking of BMDM‐EVs. (2) To gain deeper insights into the role of ARG1 in microglial phagocytosis of RBCs, employing ARG1 knockout mice offers a refined and potent experimental model for precise investigation. Indeed, the complete knockout of Arg1 in mice has been reported to result in lethality prior to adulthood, thereby posing a significant limitation to our ability to directly validate the functional role of the ARG1 protein in vivo. (3) We observed that busulfan‐treated mice administered with BMDM‐EVs exhibited faster haematoma resolution and neurological recovery post‐brain haemorrhage, which we attributed to enhanced microglial phagocytic function, but we cannot rule out the direct effects of BMDM‐EVs on neurons.
L162:In summary, our findings provide strong evidence that post‐ICH, BMDMs facilitate microglial phagocytosis of erythrocytes, accelerate haematoma resolution, and promote neurological recovery through EV‐mediated delivery of ARG1 protein. Our results offer new insights into EV‐mediated intercellular communication and suggest that BMDM‐EVs have potential therapeutic value for treating ICH.
L737: .  2015 . “ Busulfan as a Myelosuppressive Agent for Generating Stable High‐Level Bone Marrow Chimerism in Mice .”  Journal of visualized experiments: JoVE  no.  98 :  e52553 . 25867947
L1062:**with BMDMs** (a) Schematic illustration of the coculture system and flow cytometry
L1064:BMDMs were plated in the lower chamber. After 96 hours of coculture, ARG1 levels
L1066:PMG+BLANK group. (c) Flow cytometry scatter plot for the PMG+BMDMs group.
L1084:**Figure S9. Microglial Cells take up BMDM-EVs** Fluorescence images illustrating
L1090:**Figure S10. BMDM-EVs enhances microglial phagocytic function against RBCs**
L1091:**and promote neural function recovery in mice lacking BMDMs** (a) Quantification
L1098:**Figure S11. High expression of ARG1 in BMDM cells** (a) Venn diagram illustrating
L1099:the overlap of specific proteins in ICH-EVs and characteristic genes of BMDM cells
L1101:levels of _Arg1_ mRNA in MG and BMDM cells from each group, sorted by flow
L1106:(e) in BMDM cells from the brains of mice at 1, 3, and 7 days post-ICH. Data are
L1111:procedure for extracting EVs from Arg1-specific knockdown BMDM cells. Primary
L1112:BMDM cells were infected with lentivirus to knockdown Arg1, then the medium was
L1115:BMDM and Arg1 knockdown BMDM cells, scale bar, 100 nm. (j) Western blot
L1116:analysis confirming the knockdown of Arg1 in lentivirus-infected BMDM cells. (k-l)
L1129:**Figure S13. BMDM-EVs contain high levels of ARG1** (a) Schematic illustration of
L1130:the experimental groups and procedures for investigating the effects of BMDM-EVs on
L1133:and procedures for exploring the contribution of microglia and BMDMs to ARG1 levels
L1163:**Figure S16. Impact of BMDM-EVs on inflammation in the brain tissue and serum**
[52ms]
