L16:The BCG vaccine has been used against tuberculosis (TB) for over a hundred years; however, it does not protect adults from pulmonary TB. To develop alternative vaccines against TB, we generated  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  H37Rv (Mtb)-derived vaccine strains by rationally deleting key virulent genes, resulting in single ( SKO; ΔfbpA ), double (DKO;  ΔfbpA-ΔsapM ), triple (TKO-D;  ΔfbpA-ΔsapM-ΔdosR  and TKO-Z;  ΔfbpA-ΔsapM-Δzmp1 ), and quadruple (QKO;  ΔfbpA-ΔsapM-Δzmp1-dosR ) strains. To understand how macrophages, the host cells that defend against infection and process antigens for presentation to immune cells, respond to these vaccine strains, we performed transcriptomic analyses of mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) infected with these strains. The transcriptomic data were compared with similar data obtained from macrophages infected with Mtb H37Rv and BCG. Our analyses revealed that genes associated with various immune and cell signaling pathways, such as NF-kappa B signaling, TNF signaling, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, chemokine signaling, hematopoietic cell lineage, Toll-like receptor signaling, IL-17 signaling, Th1 and Th2 cell differentiation, Th17 cell differentiation, and T cell receptor signaling were differentially expressed in BMDMs infected with our vaccine strains. Enhanced expression of cytokines and chemokines, including proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-6, GM-CSF, and IL-1, which are essential for the immune response against Mtb infection, was also observed in BMDMs infected with these strains. In particular, BMDMs infected with all vaccine strains exhibited a significant upregulation of genes associated with the IL-17 pathway. These results may indicate that our vaccine strains could induce a protective immune response against TB.
L29:Isolation of bone marrow-derived macrophages
L30:As described previously, BMDMs were extracted from wild-type C57BL/6 mice ( 28 ). Briefly, the BMDMs were cultured from the femurs and tibias of mice in DMEM medium (DMEM, 10% fetal bovine serum, 10 ng/ml of M-CSF) and incubated at 37°C in 5% CO 2  for 7 days, with the addition of new medium containing M-CSF every 2–3 days.
L31:Infection of BMDMs with Mtb strains
L32:Mtb wild-type H37Rv and all mycobacterial vaccine strains were cultured in 7H9 medium with appropriate antibiotics in roller bottles at 37°C for 5–7 days. Colony-forming units (CFUs) of the bacterial suspensions were determined and stored at -80°C until use. Before infection, bacteria were pelleted, washed with PBS, and dispersed using a 23G syringe to eliminate clumps. Mouse BMDMs (10 6  cells/well) seeded in 6-well tissue culture plates (Corning, USA) were infected at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 1:5 in DMEM for 4 h to allow phagocytosis. Afterward, cells were washed thrice with D-PBS (Corning, USA) to remove extracellular bacteria and replaced with fresh DMEM containing 10% fetal bovine serum for further incubation at 24 and 72 h.
L34:Mouse BMDMs (10 6 /well) were infected with the respective mycobacterial strains as described above for different time points (24 h and 72 h). After respective time points, total RNA was extracted from the infected BMDMs using the EZ-10 DNAaway RNA Mini-Preps Kit (Bio Basic, Canada) as described previously ( 28 ). RNA quantification was performed using Nanodrop (Thermo Scientific, USA). The quality of RNA was measured using TapeStation (Agilent Technologies 4200). The library preparation enriched for polyA RNA fraction was performed in house and RNA sequencing was performed at Novogene Corporation Inc. (Sacramento, CA, USA), as described elsewhere ( 29 ). Two biological replicates for each condition were performed. We employed web-based application Genialis to analyze RNA sequencing raw data using their “General RNA-Seq pipeline (featureCounts)” with default settings (Genialis, Inc., Boston, MA). RNA-Seq data were aligned using STAR aligner to the mouse transcriptome from Ensembl release version 109 with trimmed reads removing adapter sequences. Read counts were computed using featureCounts. Quality control metrics were determined, and the average quality per read was 36 (Phred score) ( 
L40:The total RNA from infected BMDM was used to synthesize cDNA using the RevertAid First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Thermo) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed using a LightCycler­ ®  96 Instrument (Roche). PCR was performed using PowerTrack™ SYBR Green (Thermo Fisher Scientific) according to the manufacturer’s recommendations. Three biological replicates for each condition were performed. Primer details are given in the  
L46:Transcriptome analysis of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains compared to uninfected cells
L47:To explore the variation in transcriptional signatures of mouse BMDMs infected with various Mtb vaccine strains, we conducted a genome-wide gene expression analysis using an RNA-sequencing platform ( 
L49: ). The performance of Principal Component Analysis (PCA) on the transcripts from mouse BMDMs clearly distinguished the infection groups from the PBS control at both 24 and 72 h time points. At 24 h post-infection, groups of transcripts with H37Rv background knockouts clustered almost entirely together, distinctly separating from those associated with BCG. By 72 h post-infection, almost all groups were distinctly separated, regardless of their H37Rv or BCG background ( 
L52:Figure 1 Schematics showing RNA-Seq workflow and data analysis. Fresh BMDMs were isolated from the female wild-type C57BL/6J mice and infected with respective vaccine strains or left uninfected. Following a 4-hour phagocytosis period, the BMDMs were washed with D-PBS and cultured in fresh DMEM supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum for an additional 24 and 72 hours. RNA was isolated and subjected to eukaryotic mRNA enrichment at each time point. Subsequently, cDNA libraries were prepared, followed by adapter ligation and amplification for Illumina sequencing. The RNA-Seq data were aligned to the mouse transcriptome, and differential gene expression (DEG) analysis was performed. The figure was generated using BioRender.
L53:For gene expression analysis, we considered fold change cut-off values of Log 2  fold change >1.0 as upregulated and <-1.0 for downregulated genes (FDR < 0.05). Our transcriptome analysis identified more than 14,000 genes exhibiting expression among Mtb-infected mouse BMDMs compared to uninfected control ( 
L62:Figure 2 Transcriptome profiling of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains in comparison to control.  (A, D) , Heatmap of the differentially expressed genes at 24 h and 72 h;  (B, E) , Venn diagram of the differentially expressed genes showing the number of overlapping and unique genes among groups at 24 h and 72 h;  (C, F) , Volcano plot showing distribution of p values and log 2  fold change of differentially expressed genes as green (downregulated), red (upregulated) and black (Not significant) at 24 h and 72 h with respective bar graphs in percentage.
L66:Transcriptome analysis of mouse BMDMs infected with Mtb vaccine strains compared to H37Rv wild-type strain
L78:Figure 3 Transcriptome profiling of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains in comparison to Mtb H37Rv.  (A, D) , Heatmap of the differentially expressed genes at 24 h and 72 h;  (B, E) , Venn diagram of the differentially expressed genes showing the number of overlapping and unique genes among groups at 24 h and 72 h;  (C, F) , Volcano plot showing differentially expressed genes as green (downregulated), red (upregulated) and black (Not significant) at 24 h and 72 h with respective bar graphs in percentage.
L79:KEGG pathway analysis of mouse BMDMs infected with Mtb vaccine strains versus uninfected cells
L89:KEGG pathway analysis of mouse BMDMs infected with mycobacterial vaccine strains compared to H37Rv
L101:Figure 4 KEGG pathway analysis in upregulated differentially expressed transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 24 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched pathways in upregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where the dot size reflects the total number of genes in each pathway, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L102:Figure 5 KEGG pathway analysis in upregulated differentially expressed transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 72 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched pathways in upregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where the dot size reflects the total number of genes in each pathway enriched, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L103:Figure 6 KEGG pathway analysis in downregulated differentially expressed transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 24 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched pathways in downregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where the dot size reflects the total number of genes in each category, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L104:Figure 7 KEGG pathway analysis in downregulated differentially expressed transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 72 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched pathways in downregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where the dot size reflects the total number of genes in each category, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L134:Gene ontology analysis of mouse BMDMs infected with mycobacterial vaccine strains compared to H37Rv
L142:Figure 8 Gene ontology analysis for biological processes in the differentially upregulated transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 24 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched biological processes in upregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where dot size reflects the total number of genes in each biological process, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L143:Figure 9 Gene ontology analysis for biological processes in the differentially upregulated transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 72 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched biological processes in upregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where the dot size reflects the total number of genes in each biological process, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L149:Figure 10 Gene ontology analysis for biological processes in the differentially downregulated transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 24 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched biological processes of downregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where the dot size reflects the total number of genes in each biological process, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L150:Figure 11 Gene ontology analysis for biological processes in the differentially downregulated transcripts of mouse BMDMs infected with vaccine strains versus H37Rv at 72 h post-infection. Dot plots illustrate the top 30 enriched biological processes in downregulated DEGs in BCG, SKO, DKO, TKOD, TKOZ, and QKO compared to H37Rv control. Dot plots measure fold enrichment, where the dot size reflects the total number of genes in each biological process, and the gradient color indicates statistical significance expressed as −log 10  (P).
L156: ). Importantly, gene deletions in our vaccine strains resulted in differential modulation of several signal transduction pathways, including the NF-kappa B signaling pathway (mmu04064) and TNF signaling pathway (mmu04668). The signaling molecule and interaction pathway, particularly Cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction (mmu04060), showed significant upregulation, while the ECM-receptor interaction pathway (mmu04512) demonstrated downregulation. Several cytokine and chemokine genes, including  tnf, il6, il1α, il1β, il1r1, il1r2, il12a, il12b, il23, cxcl1, cxcl2, cxcl3, ccl22, ccl2, ccl3, ccl4, ccl6, and ccl7 , were significantly upregulated across most vaccine groups. In contrast, genes such as  cxcr1, cxcr3, cxcl9, cxcl12, and ccl8  were downregulated in the majority of vaccine groups. Furthermore, as previously noted, the ECM-receptor interaction pathway was significantly enriched in downregulated DEGs in specific vaccine strain-infected BMDMs, including SKO, TKO-D, and QKO, at 72 h ( 
L169:Figure 12 IL17 signaling pathway is differentially regulated in vaccine groups in comparison with H37Rv.  (A, C)  Heat map depicts the green–red gradient that reflects relative gene expression among vaccine groups at 24 h and 72 h.  (B, D)  Gene expression levels of Csf2, Csf3, ilß, ptgs2, and lcn2 in BMDMs infected with vaccine strains at 24 and 72 hours as determined by qRT-PCR. Data were analyzed by one-way ANOVA followed by Dunnett’s multiple comparisons test.
L170:Further confirmation of DEGs in vaccine-infected BMDMs using qRT-PCR
L171:To further confirm the findings of our study, we performed qRT-PCR on macrophages infected with our vaccine strains. For this analysis, we randomly selected DEGs from various pathways. We examined genes such as  csf1, TNF, slc7a2, lta, ddit4 , and  dapk2  at the 24 h and 72 h time points ( 
L176:Figure 13 qPCR Validation of differentially regulated pathways in vaccine groups comparison with H37Rv.  (A, B)  Gene expression levels of Csf1, tnf, slc7a2, lta, ddit4, and dapk2 in vaccine strains infected BMDMs at 24 h and 72 h as determined by qRT-PCR. Data were analyzed by one-way ANOVA followed by Dunnett’s multiple comparisons test.
L182:Cytokines and chemokines are essential in coordinating the immune response to mycobacterial infection ( 43 ). TB vaccine candidates like VPM1002 and MTBVAC have shown increased cytokine responses ( 44 ,  45 ). Our vaccine strains similarly showed different cytokine and chemokine expression profiles. Pro-inflammatory cytokines, including TNF-α, IL-6, GM-CSF, and IL-1, are crucial for the immune response against Mtb infection and play a vital role in host survival ( 46 – 48 ). Consistent with previous findings, our vaccine-infected macrophages exhibit increased expression of TNF-α, IL-6, and GM-CSF. Furthermore, our vaccine strains induce higher levels of IL-1 family cytokines, including IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-1R1, and IL-1R2. Chemokines such as CXCL1, CXCL2, and CXCL3 promote the recruitment of neutrophils and natural killer cells, while CCL3 and CCL4 aid in T-cell recruitment. Additionally, CCL7 is vital for recruiting monocytes, dendritic cells, T cells, and natural killer cells ( 49 ). Notably, our vaccine strains show strong expression of these chemokines, highlighting their potential immunomodulatory role effects.
L185:One of the major limitations of the present study is that the comparative transcriptomic analysis was performed under  in vitro  conditions and not  in vivo . While our experimental design provides us with the controlled environment to study BMDMs’ responses after infection with our vaccine strains, it lacks the  in vivo  conditions like interactions with other cell types, location-specific cell signals, etc. However, our study offers valuable comparative transcriptomic analysis datasets among our vaccine strains along with BCG, which offer insights that help enhance our understanding. This study focuses exclusively on comparing the transcriptomes of vaccine strains derived from the H37Rv Mtb strain. Further research is required to understand the relationship between the immune and cell signaling pathways activated by these vaccines and their actual protective efficacy. Moreover, this study emphasizes the importance of performing comparative transcriptomic analyses for vaccine candidates such as VPM1002 and MTBVAC, currently undergoing clinical trials, to gain deeper insights into the host immune response. Simultaneously, we recognize the importance of ‘decoy’ immune responses in TB infection ( 58 ). While certain host immune responses may appear promising, they indeed support the pathogen by promoting its persistence within the host. Thus, we strongly underscore the importance of performing protection studies in animal models and correlating these immune responses to actual protection, rather than relying solely on the statement that heightened proinflammatory cytokine production alone is beneficial. Overall, our study provides a thorough comparative transcriptome analysis of Mtb-derived vaccine strains alongside BCG, highlighting key immune pathways that play a crucial role in modulating immune and cell signaling events in the fight against the Mtb pathogen.
L257:48 Mishra A Singh VK Jagannath C Subbian S Restrepo BI Gauduin MC .  Human Macrophages Exhibit GM-CSF Dependent Restriction of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection via Regulating Their Self-Survival, Differentiation and Metabolism .  Front Immunol . ( 2022 )  13 : 859116 . doi:  10.3389/fimmu.2022.859116 , PMID:  35634283
[108ms]
