L1:Bone marrow-derived myeloid cells drive neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease: Insights from the FAD 4T  mouse model
L6:c Bone Marrow Transplantation Center of the First Affiliated Hospital, and Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 310000, China
L12:Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by amyloid β (Aβ) accumulation, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. While neuroinflammation is a key feature of AD, the potential involvement of bone marrow-derived cells in its pathology remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of bone marrow-derived myeloid cells in driving neuroinflammation in AD.
L14:We developed a transgenic mouse model (FAD4T) by overexpressing human APPSwe/Ind and PSEN1 M146L/L286V on a C57BL/6J background. FAD 4T  mice were characterized for hallmark AD features, including amyloid deposition, glial activation, and cognitive deficits. Additionally, single-cell transcriptomic analysis was performed to profile bone marrow and brain myeloid cells. Bone marrow transplantation experiments were conducted to assess the contribution of bone marrow-derived macrophages to neuroinflammation in AD.
L16:FAD 4T  mice exhibited hallmark AD phenotypes such as amyloid deposition, glial activation, and cognitive impairment, alongside osteoporosis-like changes. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified a significant increase in bone marrow-derived macrophages in the brains of FAD 4T  mice. These cells showed upregulation of AD-related genes, including  Cst7  and  Ctsd , suggesting their active role in neuroinflammation. Bone marrow transplantation experiments further confirmed that bone marrow-derived macrophages contributed to the inflammatory processes in the AD brain.
L18:Our findings demonstrate that bone marrow-derived myeloid cells infiltrate the brain and might play a critical role in driving neuroinflammation in AD. Targeting these cells may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for mitigating inflammation and disease progression in AD.
L20:Our findings suggest that bone marrow-derived inflammation play a critical role in AD-associated inflammation, offering potential targets for therapeutic intervention such as  Cst7  and  Ctsd  in bone marrow-derived myeloid cells.
L22:Alzheimer's disease; Brain; Bone; Bone marrow; Myeloid cells
L27:In addition to Aβ plaques and NFTs, multiple lines of evidence have revealed that the activation of immune cells is a critical regulator of AD pathology. When the blood–brain barrier (BBB) is impaired during AD, peripheral immune cells and cytokines can enter the CNS and execute their roles [ [10] ,  [11] ,  [12] ]. In our recent study, we showed that loss of osteocytes drives the senescence of bone and bone marrow [ 13 ]. Intriguingly, osteoporosis and AD are two concomitant degenerative diseases in the aged population [ 14 , 15 ]. It is possible that bone alteration during aging contributes to AD progression via the bone marrow-brain axis. In this study, we used a newly developed AD mouse model FAD 4T , which exhibits both disease onset of AD and osteoporosis-like phenotypes at 8 months of age. It combines human APP Swedish (K595N/M596L) and Indiana (V642F) mutations with PSEN1 M146L and L286V mutations—a distinct set not replicated in existing models. We precisely mapped its transgene insertion to the Arhgef38 and Sfi1 loci (unrelated to AD or bone biology), ruling out insertion artifacts. Through single-cell transcriptome analysis, we found an increase of bone marrow-derived macrophages and monocytes in the brain of 8-month-old FAD 4T  mice. Further analysis suggested bone marrow-derived macrophages shaped the inflammatory microenvironment during AD progress. Moreover, we demonstrated a subset of bone marrow-derived myeloid cells marked with Ctsd migrated into brain and promoted inflammation by bone marrow transplantation. These findings underscore the pivotal role of bone marrow-derived myeloid cells in the inflammatory cascade of Alzheimer's disease, offering novel insights into potential therapeutic targets for intervention in this devastating condition.
L31:Recent studies have indicated the crosstalk between bone marrow-derived immune cells and brain in AD using 5xFAD mouse model [ 12 ]. To better understand the role of bone marrow in different AD models, we first established a transgenic mouse model named FAD 4T  which co-overexpress human APP with Swedish (K595N/M596L) and Indiana (V642F) FAD mutations as well as human PSEN1 carrying M146L and L286V (Extended Data  Fig. 1 a). To exclude the possibility of affecting phenotypes by insertion, inserted copy numbers and insert sites of mutant  APP  and  PSEN1  were determined by q-PCR (Extended Data  Fig. 1b and c ) and Next Generation Sequencing (Extended Data  Fig. 1d and e ). Genes at the insert sites were  Arhgef38  and  Sfi1 , which have not been reported to be involved in AD nor bone marrow development. Fig. 1 Evaluation of the FAD 4T  mouse model. a, Representative images Aβ deposition.  b,  The percentage of Aβ plaque area in the cortex and hippocampus of male and female FAD4T mouse.  c, d,  ELISA quantitative analysis of Aβ40 ( c ) and Aβ42 ( d ) in cortex and hippocampus of male and female FAD4T mouse.  e,  Representative images showing GFAP immunostaining and quantification of GFAP-positive cells in the cortex and hippocampus regions of male and female FAD4T and WT mice (4 months of age).  f,  Representative images showing IBA1 immunostaining and quantification of IBA1-positive cells in the cortex and hippocampus regions of male and female FAD4T and WT mice (4 months of age).  g,  Movement trajectories (Probe Trial), escape latency (Acquisition Trial), number of platform crossings (Probe Trial), entries of each quadrant (Probe Trial) and latency to platform (Probe Trial) of 8-month-old FAD4T and WT (female and male) mice in the MWM test. All the data are presented as the mean ± SEM. ∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, ∗∗∗p < 0.001. N = 18–20 mice for each group in behavior test, N = 3 mice for each group in histological analysis. Fig. 1
L33:Fig. 2 Single-cell sequencing distinguishes major cell types and differentially expressed gene in the brain and bone marrow from FAD4T and WT mice. a, Schematic of the analysis pipeline.  b,  UMAP visualization showing clustering of annotated single cells and proportion of cells in different cell types belonging to each sample.  c,  UMAP visualization showing clustering of single cells colored by genotype (FAD4T and WT), stages (2-month, 2M and 8-month, 8M) and genders (female and male).  d-e,  differentially expressed gene analysis of 8-month brain cell types.  d.  Dot plots showing the expression of cell type specific marker genes in integrated bone marrow (left) and brain (right) datasets.  e,  Volcano plot showing the differentially expressed genes between genotypes. (Gene colored in red: upregulated in FAD4T; gene colored in blue: upregulated in WT) avg_logFC in the x-axis represents the average log fold change. -log10(P_val_adj) on the y-axis represents the -log10 adjusted p values. Gene ontology enrichment results of the top upregulated genes in FAD4T mice are shown on the right.
L34:Another major pathological feature identified in AD patients is neuroinflammation caused by glial cell activation and gliosis in the brain [ 2 ]. To identify gliosis in FAD 4T  mice, we detected GFAP (an astrocyte marker) and IBA1 (a microglial marker) expression in 2-, 4-, 6-, and 8-month-old mouse brains. Compared to wild-type (WT) mice, astrocyte proliferation initially appeared in the hippocampus of 2-month-old female FAD 4T  mice ( Fig. 1 e, Extended Data  Fig. 2 a), later than the time when plaques appeared, but there was no significant difference. More significant phenotype of glia cell activation was observed in 4-month-old FAD 4T  mice ( Fig. 1 f). We also observed co-localization of Aβ plaques and microglia cell in the cortex and hippocampus of FAD 4T  mice, indicating the interplay between Aβ and glial cell (Extended Data  Fig. 2b ). Together, astrocytes and microglia exhibit an age-dependent increase, and the age-related amyloid burden increases accordingly. Fig. 2 Single-cell sequencing distinguishes major cell types and differentially expressed gene in the brain and bone marrow from FAD4T and WT mice. a, Schematic of the analysis pipeline.  b,  UMAP visualization showing clustering of annotated single cells and proportion of cells in different cell types belonging to each sample.  c,  UMAP visualization showing clustering of single cells colored by genotype (FAD4T and WT), stages (2-month, 2M and 8-month, 8M) and genders (female and male).  d-e,  differentially expressed gene analysis of 8-month brain cell types.  d.  Dot plots showing the expression of cell type specific marker genes in integrated bone marrow (left) and brain (right) datasets.  e,  Volcano plot showing the differentially expressed genes between genotypes. (Gene colored in red: upregulated in FAD4T; gene colored in blue: upregulated in WT) avg_logFC in the x-axis represents the average log fold change. -log10(P_val_adj) on the y-axis represents the -log10 adjusted p values. Gene ontology enrichment results of the top upregulated genes in FAD4T mice are shown on the right. Fig. 2
L36:Fig. 3 Reclustering of macrophages in 8-month samples. a, UMAP visualization showing subclusters of microglia, monocytes, and macrophages (left). Clustering of single cells colored by stages (2-month and 8-month), genders (female and male) and genotype (FAD4T and WT) (right).  b,  Heatmap showing the enrichment of transcription factors in brain macrophages; regulon activity is binarized.  c,  UMAP visualization of macrophages using SCANPY. Velocity is shown as arrows. Tissue distribution is visualized on the left (bm: bone marrow).  d,  Capture of brain monocytes and M1 macrophages in UMAP. Velocity is shown as arrows.  e,  Heatmap of specific differentially expressed genes in monocytes (green bar) and M1 macrophages (orange bar).
L37:AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with progressive impairment of behavioral and cognitive functions, and it has shown a high correlation with Aβ levels in APP transgenic mice [ 9 ]. To determine whether FAD 4T  mice exhibit an age-dependent cognitive deficit, we next performed multiple behavior tests with mice at different ages. According to the results of Morris Water Maze (MWM), FAD 4T  mice showed impaired spatial memory at 8 months of age as indicated by increased escape latency, decreased numbers of crossing platform and entries into target quadrant ( Fig. 1 g), but not at 3 and 6 months of age (Extended Data  Fig. 3 a and b). Moreover, FAD 4T  mice didn't show locomotor impairment during MWM and Open-field Test at 8 months of age ( Fig. 1 g, Extended Data  Fig. 3c ), excluding the possibility that differences between FAD 4T  and WT were caused by locomotor ability. During Open-field Test, significant increase in the time spent in the center zone indicating less anxiety-like behavior in the FAD 4T  compared to WT mice (Extended Data  Fig. 3c ). Consistent with results of MWM, 8-month-old FAD 4T  mice showed decreased alternation rate compared with WT mice in Y Maze (Extended Data  Fig. 3d ), indicating impaired memory. Together, these data indicated that the cognitive impairment of FAD 4T  mice occurs in an age-dependent manner, and they develop spatial learning and memory deficits without locomotor impairment at 8 months of age. Fig. 3 Reclustering of macrophages in 8-month samples. a, UMAP visualization showing subclusters of microglia, monocytes, and macrophages (left). Clustering of single cells colored by stages (2-month and 8-month), genders (female and male) and genotype (FAD4T and WT) (right).  b,  Heatmap showing the enrichment of transcription factors in brain macrophages; regulon activity is binarized.  c,  UMAP visualization of macrophages using SCANPY. Velocity is shown as arrows. Tissue distribution is visualized on the left (bm: bone marrow).  d,  Capture of brain monocytes and M1 macrophages in UMAP. Velocity is shown as arrows.  e,  Heatmap of specific differentially expressed genes in monocytes (green bar) and M1 macrophages (orange bar). Fig. 3
L38:Single-cell landscape of bone marrow and brain in FAD 4T  mice
L39:Fig. 4 M1 macrophage activation in the FAD4T mouse brain. a, b, Gene set variation analysis (GSVA) pathway enrichment of different groups (sample conditions) in bone marrow ( a ) and brain ( b ) samples.  c,  Pseudotime trajectory and color-coded pseudotime of brain macrophage and monocyte subclusters using Monocle2.  d,  Selected marker gene expression in the cell type trajectory.  e,  Expression levels of selected inflammation-related genes in the macrophage trajectory.
L40:Our previous study demonstrated the importance of the bone marrow-brain axis in the function of the brain during aging [ 17 ]. To explore the association between bone marrow and brain in AD, we performed scRNA-seq of bone marrow and brain samples obtained from 2-month (early stage with limited Aβ deposition) and 8-month (disease onset with significant pathological and cognitive impairments) FAD 4T  and WT mice ( Fig. 2 a). Single-cell suspensions of bone marrow and brain samples in each group (FAD 4T -2-month, FAD 4T -8-month, WT-2-month, WT-8-month) were prepared and sequenced (see Methods). After quality control, we detected 60,837 and 63,727 cells in bone marrow and brain samples, respectively. The median number of detected genes per cell in bone marrow and brain samples was 2060 and 2023 (Extended Data  Fig. 4 a). Unsupervised clustering identified major cell types in uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) space ( Fig. 2 b). In bone marrow, we mapped prior immune cell types, including lymphocytes (Cd79a +  B cells, Klrk1 +  NKT cells, Cd8 +  T cells), myeloid cells (neutrophils, macrophages, mast cells, dendritic cells) and progenitors (erythroid progenitor cells (EPCs), granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (GMPs), hematopoietic stem cells (CD34 +  HSCs), based on canonical cell-type specific marker genes ( Fig. 2 d). A small cluster of bone marrow mesenchymal cells was retained. In the brain, we identified major non-immune cell types (astrocytes, oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (Pdgfra +  OPCs), oligodendrocytes (Cldn11 + ), neurons, arachnoid barrier cells (Slc47a1 +  ABCs), endothelial cells, choroid plexus epithelial cells (Ttr +  CPCs) and Ccdc153 +  ependymocytes and immune cells (B cells, DCs, NKT cells, neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages and microglia) based on previously published whole brain scRNA-seq datasets [ 18 ] ( Fig. 2 d). In bone marrow samples, around 25 % of detected cells were lymphocytes, and over 50 % of cells were myeloid cells ( Fig. 2 b, Extended Data  Fig. 4b ). In 8-month brain samples, the proportions of macrophages and monocytes increased significantly ( Fig. 2 c, Extended Data  Fig. 4c ). The comprehensive cell landscape enabled further evaluation of the cell interrelation and state between bone marrow and brain. Fig. 4 M1 macrophage activation in the FAD4T mouse brain. a, b, Gene set variation analysis (GSVA) pathway enrichment of different groups (sample conditions) in bone marrow ( a ) and brain ( b ) samples.  c,  Pseudotime trajectory and color-coded pseudotime of brain macrophage and monocyte subclusters using Monocle2.  d,  Selected marker gene expression in the cell type trajectory.  e,  Expression levels of selected inflammation-related genes in the macrophage trajectory. Fig. 4
L41:Fig. 5 Ligand-receptor communication networks between bone marrow myeloid cells and brain cells. a-c ,  Cell–cell interaction network of ligand-receptor pairs between 2-month bone marrow myeloid cells (macrophages, neutrophils, DCs) and brain cells (( a ) microglia, ( b ) oligodendrocytes, ( c ) endothelial cells). The arrow indicated the direction from ligands to receptors.  d - f,  Paired enrichment of Cxcl signaling pathway networks in ( a – c ).  g - j,  Cell–cell interaction network of ligand-receptor pairs between 8-month bone marrow myeloid cells and brain cells ( g, h ) CPCs, ( i, j ) ABCs, ECs, pericytes and ependymocytes). The arrow indicated the direction from ligands to receptors.  k ,  l,  Paired enrichment of Cxcl signaling pathway networks in ( g , h ) and ( i, j ).
L42:After data integration, cells from different stages, genders and genotypes were merged ( Fig. 2 c). Considerable variations were observed between genotype and stages in the brain. Most monocytes and macrophages were observed in 8-month samples while M2 macrophages ( Cd163 high ) were enriched in 2-month samples (Extended Data  Fig. 4c ). Furthermore, flow cytometry and analysis revealed obvious upregulation of monocytes in both the male and female cortices of 8-month-old FAD 4T  mice ( Fig. 2 d, Extended Data  Fig. 5 ), confirming the increase of monocytes. Fig. 5 Ligand-receptor communication networks between bone marrow myeloid cells and brain cells. a-c ,  Cell–cell interaction network of ligand-receptor pairs between 2-month bone marrow myeloid cells (macrophages, neutrophils, DCs) and brain cells (( a ) microglia, ( b ) oligodendrocytes, ( c ) endothelial cells). The arrow indicated the direction from ligands to receptors.  d - f,  Paired enrichment of Cxcl signaling pathway networks in ( a – c ).  g - j,  Cell–cell interaction network of ligand-receptor pairs between 8-month bone marrow myeloid cells and brain cells ( g, h ) CPCs, ( i, j ) ABCs, ECs, pericytes and ependymocytes). The arrow indicated the direction from ligands to receptors.  k ,  l,  Paired enrichment of Cxcl signaling pathway networks in ( g , h ) and ( i, j ). Fig. 5
L43:Fig. 6 BMCs transplantation and bone marrow-derived cell analysis in brain of FAD4T and WT mouse. a, Schematic diagram of the bone-brain axis in the AD disease process via bone marrow transfer assay.  b,  The body weight of FAD4T and WT mice after transplantation.  c,  Representative confocal images and quantification of GFP + F4/80+ co-localization in the brains of FAD4T and WT mice 6 months post transplantation.  d,  Representative confocal images, and quantification of GFP-positive cells number, and fluorescence intensity of  Ctsd  in GFP-positive cells in the brain of FAD4T and WT mice 6 months post transplantation.  e, f,  Bone mass analysis of FAD4T and WT mouse spines.  e,  Representative microcomputed tomography (μCT) reconstructive images and trabecular microstructural parameters of 2-month-old FAD4T and WT mouse spines (BV/TV, bone volume fraction; Tb. Sp, trabecular separation; Tb. Th, trabecular thickness; Tb. N, trabecular number; BMD, bone mineral density).  f,  Representative microcomputed tomography (μCT) reconstructive images and trabecular microstructural parameters of 8-month-old FAD4T and WT mouse spines. All the data are presented as the mean ± SEM. ∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, ∗∗∗p < 0.001. N = 4–5 mice for each group in histological and bone density analysis.
L44:Male samples harbored higher proportions of endothelial cells and immature neurons. Female samples contained a vast majority of astrocytes (Extended Data  Fig. 4c ). We observed specific enrichment of M1 macrophages ( Cd68 ,  Adgre1 ,  Cd86, Cd80  positive and  Tmem119 low ) in FAD 4T  brain samples (Extended Data  Fig. 4c ), suggesting that a potential macrophages-mediated proinflammatory environment was activated. Considering the vital role of microglia in AD [ 19 ], we further reanalyzed expressed genes sets of activated response microglia in a published study which used App NL−G-F  mice [ 20 ]. Activated response microglia expressed gene sets involved in inflammatory processes ( Cst7, Clec7a, Apoe ) (Extended Data  Fig. 6 a). Interferon response microglia expressed genes involved in innate immune response and interferon response type I pathways( Irf7, Cd74, Ifitm3 ) (Extended Data  Fig. 6a ). The heterogeneity of microglia in FAD 4T  mice suggested most of the cells were homeostatic microglia (Extended Data  Fig. 6b ), while a subset of interferon response microglia could be identified without enrichment of  Cst7 . These results indicated that the activated or “disease associated” transcription changes in microglia were not significant in FAD 4T  model. But those activated responses were further identified in myeloid cells (M1-like macrophages) which were specific enriched in 8-month FAD 4T  mice brain. To better understand the condition of neurons during AD progress, we also performed re-clustering of neurons in brain (Extended Data  Fig. 6c ). Whole brain scRNA-seq resulted limited neurons compared with single-nucleus RNA-seq. The transitional immature neurons were only found in 2-month mice. Cell type specific marker genes demonstrated distinct expression patterns of those neurons (Extended Data  Fig. 6d ). We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in GABAergic neurons between different stages. GABAergic neurons in 8-month mice showed enrichment of histone markers (Extended Data  Fig. 6e ). Gene function of up-regulated genes in 8-month mice included Polycomb Repressor Complex 2 (PRC2) methylates histones and DNA, chromatin remodeling, Heme signaling and positive regulation of neuron migration (Extended Data  Fig. 6f ). The transcription activity of GABAergic neurons in 8-month mice was down-regulated compared with 2-month mice. The potential epigenetic remodeling and transcriptional repression in 8-month mice suggested a progressive inhibition of neuron differentiation and function, which could contribute to further neurocognitive disorders. Fig. 6 BMCs transplantation and bone marrow-derived cell analysis in brain of FAD4T and WT mouse. a, Schematic diagram of the bone-brain axis in the AD disease process via bone marrow transfer assay.  b,  The body weight of FAD4T and WT mice after transplantation.  c,  Representative confocal images and quantification of GFP + F4/80+ co-localization in the brains of FAD4T and WT mice 6 months post transplantation.  d,  Representative confocal images, and quantification of GFP-positive cells number, and fluorescence intensity of  Ctsd  in GFP-positive cells in the brain of FAD4T and WT mice 6 months post transplantation.  e, f,  Bone mass analysis of FAD4T and WT mouse spines.  e,  Representative microcomputed tomography (μCT) reconstructive images and trabecular microstructural parameters of 2-month-old FAD4T and WT mouse spines (BV/TV, bone volume fraction; Tb. Sp, trabecular separation; Tb. Th, trabecular thickness; Tb. N, trabecular number; BMD, bone mineral density).  f,  Representative microcomputed tomography (μCT) reconstructive images and trabecular microstructural parameters of 8-month-old FAD4T and WT mouse spines. All the data are presented as the mean ± SEM. ∗p < 0.05, ∗∗p < 0.01, ∗∗∗p < 0.001. N = 4–5 mice for each group in histological and bone density analysis. Fig. 6
L45:Then, we mapped the expression level of bona fide marker genes for each cell type in bone marrow which included  Cd34  (HSPCs);  Igta2b  (Megakaryocytes);  Tcf7 ,  Cd3d  and  Cd8b1  (Cytotoxic T Cells);  Ighd  (Naïve B cells);  Vpreb1  (Pre-B cells);  Ly6g  (neutrophils);  Siglech  (plasmacytoid dendritic cells, pDCs);  Adgre1  (macrophages), and  Car1  (EPCs). In brain, we inspected marker genes such as  Cldn11  for oligodendrocytes;  Pdgfra  for OPCs;  Tmem119  for microglia;  Gja1  for astrocytes;  Ttr  for choroid plexus epithelial cells (CPCs);  Slc47a1  for arachnoid barrier cells (ABCs);  Ccdc153  for ependymocytes;  Syt1  for mature neurons;  Sox11  for immature neurons;  Cd163  for M2 macrophages, and  Cd86  for M1 macrophages ( Fig. 2 d). We further checked the number of DEGs between stages, genders and genotypes in bone marrow and brain. Further analysis of DEGs in FAD 4T  mouse cell types could reveal the functional changes in different conditions.
L47:We then explored the cell type specific DEGs between genotypes (FAD 4T  and WT) in the 2-month and 8-month samples. Based on the phenotypic characteristics and distribution patterns of differentially expressed genes, we did not detect a significant number of perturbed genes between genotypes in the 2-month samples (both bone marrow and brain cell types), as well as in the 8-month bone marrow cell types, which precluded us from conducting functional enrichment analysis (data not shown). Therefore, our primary focus was placed on the disparities in gene expression and functionality within the cell types present in the 8-month FAD 4T  mice brain. In macrophages, we observed significant upregulation of  Cst7 , which contains a binding site for the transcription factor C/EBPα and promotes differentiation from monocytes to macrophages [ 21 ] ( Fig. 2 e). As an immune regulator, the chromatin accessibility state of  Cst7  is involved in the transformation of disease-associated microglia in an AD mouse model [ 22 , 23 ]. We found ubiquitously upregulation of  Cst7  in macrophages, microglia, choroid epithelial cells, endothelial cells and ependymocytes, suggesting a proinflammatory transcriptional response to AD pathology in the FAD 4T  mouse brain. The enrichment of  Cst7  in myeloid cells was validated at protein level in vivo by immunostaining and confocal imaging, and the results demonstrated significantly increased myeloid cell  Cst7  in the both brain and bone marrow from female 8-month FAD 4T  mice (Extended Data  Fig. 7 a and b). Another upregulated gene,  Ctsd,  could interact with the adenosine A2A receptor in inflammatory process regulation [ 24 ]. Microglia and macrophages in the FAD 4T  mouse brain enriched AD-associated genes such as  Apoe  and  Trem2.  Upregulated gene functions in M1 macrophages were cell chemotaxis, neuron death and leukocyte migration (Extended Data  Fig. 4b ), and confocal imaging validated the upregulation of  Ctsd  at protein levels in myeloid cells in both brain and bone marrow from female 8-month FAD 4T  mice (Extended Data  Fig. 7 c and d). APOE colocalized with Aβ plaques in the FAD 4T  brain (Extended Data  Fig. 7 e), and APOE protein levels increased in the cortex and hippocampus of the FAD 4T  brain (Extended Data  Fig. 7 f and g).
L48:Elevated expression of  Cxcl10 ,  Ccl12, Cst7  and  Ctsl  in M2 macrophages involved regulation of angiogenesis and positive regulation of cytokine production ( Fig. 2 e). In 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain endothelial cells and pericytes, we identified high expression of  Igfbp7  and  Ifitm3  ( Fig. 2 h). The expression of  Ifitm3  in brain endothelial cells is consistent with our previously identified co-expression of premature signature genes between bone marrow and brain [ 17 ]. Choroid plexus epithelial cells and ependymocytes also exhibited activation of the immune response and positive regulation of cytokine production in the FAD 4T  mouse brain ( Fig. 2 h). Overall, bone marrow-derived myeloid cells may reshape the neuroinflammatory environment, which is mediated by brain M1 macrophages and endothelial cells.
L49:Re-clustering of macrophages and monocytes in the brain and bone marrow
L50:To better understand the role of microglia, monocytes, and macrophages during the progression of AD, we integrated these myeloid cells in different stages (Extended Data  Fig. 8 a). We compared the DEGs in common M2 macrophages between brain and bone marrow (Extended Data  Fig. 8 b). Heightened lysosomal activity ( Lyz2 ,  C1qb ,  C1qc ) and activated response associated genes ( Apoe ,  Trem2 ) revealed the unique regulatory function of brain M2 macrophages. Gene function enrichment analysis indicated enhanced endocytosis, neuron apoptotic process regulation and inflammatory response in the brain (Extended Data  Fig. 8 c). Macrophages in 2-month bone marrow and brain exhibited certain level of tissue batch effect (Extended Data  Fig. 8 d). Brain M2 and M1 macrophages contained a great number of cells in G1 phase with proliferation or differentiation potential (Extended Data  Fig. 8 e). We then performed gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of DEGs in each subcluster. Brain M2 macrophages enriched blood vessel morphogenesis, and M1 macrophages enriched the immunoglobulin complex (Extended Data  Fig. 8 f). Transcription factor analysis of those subsets suggested strong activity of  Atf3 ,  Erg1  and  Rel  in brain macrophages . Atf3  regulates inducible proinflammatory gene expression in macrophages [ 25 ] (Extended Data  Fig. 8 g). The  Egr1- and  Rel -dependent axis can activate lineage-specific enhancers of macrophages [ 26 , 27 ]. Target enhancer regions of  Egr1  were associated with the inflammatory response, and  Egr1  could repress the immune response. Besides immediate-early genes ( Fos  and  Jun ), other enrichment transcription factors in clusters 2 and 11 (brain macrophages) included  Klf6  and  Maf .
L51:Next, we performed reclustering of microglia, monocytes, macrophages in 8-month samples ( Fig. 3 a). We also observed the activation of M1-like macrophages which was restricted in the 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain. Macrophage showed similar activated regulons compared with 2-month samples, including  Rel ,  Maf  and  Tgif1. Bach1 ,  Atf4  and  Irf8,  were activated in monocytes and M2 macrophages ( Fig. 3 b). RNA velocity analysis of bone marrow and brain derived macrophages characterized the trajectories of cycling myeloid cells and macrophages in bone marrow ( Fig. 3 c). In the brain, monocytes and macrophages with high expression of ribosomal genes contributed to the differentiation of most M1 macrophages ( Fig. 3 d). A heatmap of signature genes suggested the proinflammatory state of M1 macrophages by enrichment of the NADPH oxidase complex components  Cybb  and  Nfam1  ( Fig. 3 e) .  The activation of brain M1 macrophages could be regarded as the most obvious signature in the FAD 4T  mouse brain.
L53:Next, we examined the gene pathway activity in macrophage subsets between different groups. Gene set variation analysis (GSVA) of pathways demonstrated that the inflammatory response and oxidative phosphorylation pathway were specifically enriched in FAD 4T  bone marrow samples ( Fig. 4 a). 2-month FAD 4T  bone marrow samples enriched interferon alpha anti-inflammatory response. The peroxisome pathway, Il2-STAT5 signaling pathway and Kras signaling pathway were relatively up-regulated in 8-month FAD 4T  bone marrow. The Il2-STAT5 signaling pathway is critical for the homeostasis of regulatory T (Treg) cells [ 28 ]. In brain, 2-month FAD 4T  mice showed activation of fatty acid metabolism and the bile acid metabolism pathway ( Fig. 4 b). In the 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain, enrichment of the oxidative phosphorylation pathway, mTORC1 signaling pathway and glycolysis pathway was accomplished by a proinflammatory response ( Fig. 4 b).
L54:Conditional deletion of osteocytes by the expression of diphtheria toxin subunit α (DTA) in dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP-1)-positive osteocytes mobilized myeloid lineage differentiation in bone marrow [ 13 ]. We checked whether similar perturbation was aroused in FAD 4T  bone marrow samples. Overlap of differentially expressed genes between DTA and FAD 4T  samples suggested more common genes in 8-month FAD 4T  samples (Extended Data  Fig. 9 a). The expression levels of upregulated genes in FAD 4T  bone marrow samples were enriched in macrophages and DCs (Extended Data  Fig. 9 b). In 2-month FAD 4T  samples, overlapping genes included common antigen processing markers ( Cd74 ,  Irf8 ). In 8-month FAD 4T  bone marrow samples, overlapping genes were related to macrophage function ( Ms4a6c ,  Ctss ,  F13a1 ,  S100a4 ) (Extended Data  Fig. 9 b). Functional enrichment of upregulated overlapping genes also indicated antigen processing and presentation (Extended Data  Fig. 9 c). Thus, osteocytes in the FAD 4T  mouse bone marrow microenvironment may cause comparable transcriptional perturbation in myeloid lineage differentiation.
L55:To explore the differentiation of inflammation-associated macrophages in the 8-month brain, we performed trajectory analysis of macrophage and monocyte subsets. Macrophages with high expression of ribosomal genes and M1 macrophages were enriched at the two branches ( Fig. 4 c). We also checked the expression levels of a monocyte marker ( Cd14 ), M1 macrophage marker ( Cd86 ), M2 macrophage marker ( Cd163 ) and common macrophage marker ( Csf1r ) ( Fig. 4 d). The expression of macrophage polarization-associated genes and cytokines were visualized on the trajectory ( Fig. 4 e).
L57:Comparative analysis and ligand-receptor pairs identified correlation between bone marrow and brain
L58:In the case of the existence of a cell–cell signaling community between bone marrow immune cells, brain immune cells and parenchymal cells [ 17 ], we searched for the potential ligand-receptor interactions between bone marrow and brain samples. Between 2-month bone marrow immune cells and brain microglia, we observed positive proinflammatory interactions, such as Lgals9-Ighm and Lgals9-Cd45 ( Fig. 5 a, Extended Data  Fig. 11 a and b). The Cxcl signaling pathway network was enriched between cytotoxic T cells and microglia (Extended Data  Fig. 11 f). The  Psap-Gpr37  axis between bone marrow lymphocytes and brain oligodendrocytes played a neuroprotective role [ 29 ] (Extended Data  Fig. 11 a–c). Oligodendrocytes mediated most Cxcl signaling pathways with bone marrow lymphocytes (Extended Data  Fig. 11 g). Ependymocytes and endothelial cells demonstrated unique interaction patterns with bone marrow lymphocytes (Extended Data  Fig. 11a–d, e ). We also identified interaction of  Psap  and the orphan receptor  Gpr37l1  between B cells and ependymocytes.
L59:In 2-month samples, bone marrow myeloid cells (macrophages, neutrophils, DCs) and brain oligodendrocytes showed consistent interactions as in bone marrow lymphocytes ( Fig. 5 b–e). Ependymocytes and endothelial cells also demonstrated similar results compared with myeloid cells ( Fig. 5 c–f). Between M1/M2 macrophages and microglia, we observed enrichment of the  Ccl4-Ccr5  and  Ccl3-Ccr5  axes, which could induce neuroinflammation and barrier disruption in endothelial cells [ 30 ] ( Fig. 5 a–d).
L60:In 8-month samples, we focused on cell–cell interactions between myeloid cells (macrophages and monocytes) and blood–brain barrier (BBB)-associated cells (CPCs, ABCs, endothelial cells (ECs) and pericytes). Between brain myeloid cells and CPCs, we identified the  Grn-Sort1  axis as an important regulator of BBB integrity [ 31 ] (Extended Data  Fig. 12 a and b). Between brain myeloid cells and ECs, the  Igf1-Igf1r  (insulin-like growth factor 1) axis acts as a regulator in aging [ 32 ] (Extended Data  Fig. 12 c and d). Activation of the Cxcl signaling pathway was restricted to M1/M2 macrophages and BBB-associated cells (Extended Data  Fig. 12 e). In bone marrow-derived myeloid cells, we observed the same enrichment of the  Grn-Sort1  axis as in CPCs ( Fig. 5 g–h). Thus, FAD 4T  mouse brain-restricted myeloid cells (Monocytes and M1-like macrophages) may also be derived from bone marrow myeloid cells and share common signatures with BBB-associated cells in the proinflammatory response. The Cxcl signaling pathway was observed in myeloid cells and macrophages in bone marrow ( Fig. 5 k). Consistently, we found enrichment of  Psap-Gpr37l1 ,  Psap-Gpr37,  and  Grn-Sort1  between ependymocytes and bone marrow myeloid cells ( Fig. 5 i–j). Remarkable enrichment of Cxcl signaling pathway-related ligand-receptor pairs was identified in endothelial cells, pericytes and bone marrow myeloid cells, indicating the recruitment of immune cells via migration of bone marrow myeloid cells ( Fig. 5 l). Taken together, these data suggest bone marrow-derived myeloid cells reshaped the immune microenvironment in FAD 4T  mice brain through the perturbation of cell states and functions of Monocytes and M1-like macrophages.
L61:A subset of bone marrow-derived myeloid cells migrates into brain and promotes the inflammation process of Alzheimer's disease
L62:Next, we further investigated the evidence of the bone-brain axis in the AD disease process via bone marrow transplantation ( Fig. 6 a). Bone marrow stem cells of 2-month- old B6-G/R mice (systematically expressing GFP) were selected and then transplanted into 2-month-old FAD 4T  and WT mice with ablation of bone marrow cells via irradiation. FAD 4T  mice and WT mice survived well and had similar body weight after transplantation ( Fig. 6 b). After different time of transplantation (0.5 months, 2 months, and 6 months), we checked bone marrow-derived cells in the brain via flow cytometer and immunofluorescence. We observed a time-dependent increase of bone marrow derived cells (BMCs, marked with GFP) after transplantation, and the number of BMCs were similar in FAD 4T  and WT mice (Extended Data  Fig. 13 a). To further investigate AD-related BMCs, we detected BMCs in cortex and hippocampus via immunofluorescence. Due to limited numbers of BMCs in brain, we did not observe significant infiltration of BMCs in cortex and hippocampus at 0.5 months and 2 months after transplantation (Extended Data  Fig. 13 b and c). At 6 months after transplantation, more BMCs infiltration was observed in FAD 4T  mice compared with WT ( Fig. 6 c–d). We further confirmed around half of BMCs expressed F4/80, a marker of macrophage, while there is no significant difference in the percentage of F4/80 marked BMCs between FAD 4T  and WT mice ( Fig. 6 c). According to DEG analysis of brain cell types,  Cst7  and  Ctsd  were found to be upregulated in myeloid cells of 8-month-old FAD 4T  (Extended Data  Fig. 7 a–d)). So, we further checked the expression of  Cst7  and  Ctsd  in BMCs at cortex and hippocampus. However, we only observed that BMCs marked with  Ctsd  was significantly increased in FAD 4T  mice, especially in hippocampus, compared with WT ( Fig. 6 d). Considering the possibility of transplant BMCs is affected by altered bone microenvironment, we further evaluated bone structure and density of FAD 4T  and WT at different stages via micro-CT. At early stage (2 months old), no significant change of bone structure was observed ( Fig. 6 e). But at disease onset stage (8 months old), both bone formation and bone density were significantly decreased in FAD 4T  mice, indicating bone formation and microenvironment were affected by AD process ( Fig. 6 f). Taken together, these findings suggest that bone marrow-derived myeloid cells marked with  Ctsd  migrated into brain and promoted the inflammation of AD due to altered bone microenvironment.
L64:AD is the most common type of dementia which affects more than 50 million people worldwide, with a higher incidence in elder population [ 1 ]. AD and osteoporosis are common comorbidities leading to cognitive deficits, bone loss, higher fracture risk and mortality [ 14 ]. Current studies indicate that the brain and bone interact with each other in the pathogenesis of AD and osteoporosis via endocrine regulation or exosomes derived directly from bone cells [ 14 ]. In this study, we provide novel evidence that bone marrow derived myeloid cells migrate into brain and reshape the immune microenvironment through the perturbation of differentiation and function of Monocytes and M1-like macrophages during AD progress (Extended Data  Fig. 14 ). To explore the bone-brain axis in AD, we established FAD 4T  mice by overexpressing mutant APP (Swedish and Indiana) and PSEN1 (M146L and L286V) in C57BL/6J mice. After systematic validation, we demonstrated FAD 4T  mice showed typical AD-like phenotypes including Aβ deposition, glia cell activation, neuroinflammation, tau pathology and cognitive impairments. Compared with classic AD mouse models like 5xFAD, FAD 4T  has its own phenotypic features due to the novel combination of mutations in APP/PSEN1 and the expression of these mutant genes. FAD 4T  showed relatively early accumulation of Aβ (detected at 2 months old) and increase quickly with age, which is like 5xFAD mice. Along with Aβ, glia cell activation and neuroinflammation also appeared early. However, FAD 4T  did not show cognitive impairments until 8 months of age in this study, while 5xFAD mice are reported to display cognitive impairments at 5–6 months of age [ 33 ]. This could be due to the different combination of APP mutations carried by FAD 4T  and 5xFAD. The combination of APP Florida and APP London, which is carried by 5xFAD, is reported to double Aβ42 production compared with the individual mutations and significantly increase Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio [ 6 ]. While APP Indiana carried by FAD 4T  only induced modest Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio increase or no increase. In this case, although Aβ deposition was similar, protein levels of Aβ42 could vary in FAD 4T  and 5xFAD, thus causing the differences in behavior. With these phenotypic features, FAD 4T  mice provided a longer window time from Aβ deposition to cognitive impairments, which can be used as a model for studying the disease mechanisms of AD, and a tool for developing effective treatments.
L65:In various physiological and pathological conditions, microenvironment in bone marrow and brain are widely associated and interact with each other. Accumulating evidence emphasizes the leading role of peripheral immune cells, especially bone marrow-derived myeloid cells, in CNS diseases [ 34 ]. However, myeloid cells comprise heterogeneous cell groups, and defining the role of different myeloid cell subsets in AD is crucial for developing targeted therapies. Several disease-related microglia types have been defined in human and AD mouse models using single-cell RNA sequencing on only brain tissue [ 35 , 36 ]. Our previous study on the bone marrow-brain single-cell transcriptome identified co-expression signatures in a premature aging mouse model [ 17 ]. Joint analysis of AD mouse brain and bone marrow, the primary hematopoietic organ after birth, helps decipher the role of peripheral immune cells in AD progression and identify disease-related myeloid cell subsets.
L66:In this study, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on FAD 4T  and WT mouse brain samples and bone marrow samples of different sexes and ages. The major alteration in cellular composition is the increased proportion of monocytes and macrophages in both brain and bone marrow samples from 8-month FAD 4T  mice compared to WT mice. Comparison between male and female samples showed that female samples exhibited stronger inflammation-related myeloid cell function and lower mitochondrial activity in HSCs. Another single-cell transcriptome analysis of human circulating immune cells revealed that sex differences were widespread across circulating immune cells and generally enhanced with aging [ 37 ]. Such sex differences in the immune system could help explain the higher incidence of AD in women than in men [ 38 ].
L67:The expression of the AD risk gene  Apoe  was enriched in myeloid cells and progenitors from bone marrow and monocytes, macrophages and OPCs from the brain in addition to the widely studied microglia and astrocytes [ 39 ]. Notably,  Apoe  expression was upregulated in monocyte and macrophage subsets in 8-month FAD 4T  mice compared to WT mice. Further investigation into subcluster-specific changes showed upregulation of  Cst7  and  Ctsd  in 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain M1 and M2 macrophages. Induction of  Cst7  in microglia of the AD mouse model mediates the impairment in the lysosomal pathway, which leads to transition of disease-associated microglia, an inflammatory phenotype with less phagocytic ability [ 22 ].  Ctsd  was reported to mediate inflammatory signaling in mouse macrophages [ 24 ]. We also observed enrichment of  Ifitm3  in 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain endothelial cells, which was recognized as a co-expressed signature gene between premature aging bone marrow and brain in our previous study. These significant changes indicated neuroinflammation mediated by macrophages and endothelial cells in the FAD 4T  mouse brain.
L68:Trajectory analysis of macrophage and monocyte subsets in the brain showed differentiation toward M1 macrophages. Similarly, upregulation of cytokines and enrichment of several proinflammatory metabolic pathways were observed in 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain macrophages. Furthermore, the hub location of bone marrow macrophages in cluster interaction analysis indicated that bone marrow macrophages probably reshaped the inflammatory environment in FAD 4T  mice via induction of M1 macrophage differentiation in the brain. Reclustering of macrophages also identified a specific subcluster in the 8-month FAD 4T  mouse brain. Its role in the brain immune environment and AD pathogenesis needs further validation.
L69:Intriguingly, further ligand-receptor analysis revealed the interaction between bone marrow macrophages and component cells of the BBB, such as the  Grn-Sort1  axis, as an important regulator of BBB integrity. Brain endothelial cells, pericytes and bone marrow myeloid cells also interacted with each other via several  Cxcl  pathways, as identified in ligand-receptor analysis, indicating the recruitment of bone marrow myeloid cells to the brain. Since breakdown of the BBB is an early biomarker of human AD and many other neuroinflammatory diseases [ 10 ], we propose that bone marrow myeloid cells impair BBB integrity via local inflammation and proinflammatory cytokines. The similar changes like those in bone marrow of FAD 4T  mice were also found in other amyloid models. In 5 × FAD mice, single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that monocyte-derived macrophages from bone marrow, express a unique set of genes encoding scavenger receptors (for example, Mrc1, Msr1) [ 12 ]. CCR2-mediated monocyte trafficking contributed to the cognitive improvement induced by anti-PD-L1 treatment in 5 × FAD mice [ 12 ]. In 5 × FAD and 3 × Tg-AD mice, neutrophils derived from bone marrow migrate into brain, adhere to brain vessels, and cause chronic BBB damage and inflammation [ 40 ]. Importantly, there is considerable clinical evidence from human AD samples supporting the infiltration of bone marrow-derived and peripheral immune cells into the brain following blood–brain barrier breakdown [ 10 ]. These infiltrating cells lead to neuroinflammation through the secretion of neurotoxic cytokines and chemokines, thereby promoting pathological changes associated with AD. Notably, the infiltration of peripheral macrophages plays a significant role in the progression of AD in humans [ 41 , 42 ].
L70:Our study has several limitations. Firstly, we did not validate whether intervention in bone marrow myeloid cells or other peripheral myeloid cells derived from bone marrow could alleviate neuroinflammation and ameliorate AD progression. While CST7 and CTSD are promising responsive targets for lysosomal/inflammatory modulation, our study has not established their  causal  roles in Aβ-driven neuroinflammation. Their upregulation likely serves complex regulatory functions (potentially compensatory or pathogenic) in the AD microenvironment. Subsequent work will employ conditional knockouts and spatial transcriptomics to determine whether CST7/CTSD induction exacerbates or mitigates neuroinflammation. Modifying peripheral myeloid cells by targeting specific subclusters in peripheral myeloid cells could be promising to ameliorate AD progression. Previous studies have shown that immune modulation by primed bone marrow-derived myeloid cells could alleviate neuroinflammation in other amyloid models.  Ex vivo  modification of myeloid cells could be achieved by small molecular inhibitor such as CTD-002, a  Ctsd  inhibitor [ 43 ] or by Adeno-associated virus vector. Secondly, the new subset in the FAD 4T  mouse brain we identified in this study needs further investigation on its specific role in pathogenesis in AD mouse model and on its potential as a new therapeutic target. Moreover, we didn't verify causes of bone loss in our study. A very recent work showed that osteocyte-derived sclerostin was elevated and impaired cognitive function during AD progression [ 44 ]. So the bone loss could be caused by elevated sclerostin and the mechanism needs to be further studied. In future studies, we will apply ovariectomy models to explore model postmenopausal osteoporosis-AD interactions since bone-phenotype was observed in female mice in FAD 4T  model.
L72:In summary, this study provides novel evidence of the crosstalk between bone marrow and brain during AD progress. Due to the changes of bone microenvironment and density, a subset of bone marrow-derived myeloid cells marked with Ctsd migrates into brain and participates in neuroinflammation during AD progress. The detailed mechanism of these findings needs further studies in AD models and patients.
L87:Cell isolation and scRNA-Seq experiment from mouse brain and bone marrow tissues
L88:FAD 4T -2-month, FAD 4T -8-month, WT-2-month, and WT-8-month mice (n = 3 for each group and each gender) were provided by GemPharmatech Co., Ltd. All procedures involving mice, including bone marrow and brain isolation, were approved by the ethics committee of the Shanghai Sixth People's Hospital Affiliated with Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine and the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) of GemPharmatech Co., Ltd. scRNA-Seq experiments were performed by NovelBio Bio-Pharm Technology Co., Ltd. Bone marrow was flushed and kept in MACS Tissue Storage Solution (Miltenyi Biotec). Samples were filtered through 40 μm cell strainers and centrifuged at 300× g  for 5 min. Pelleted cells were suspended in red blood cell lysis buffer (Miltenyi Biotec) to lyse red blood cells. Brain tissues were surgically removed and minced into small pieces (approximately 1 mm 3 ) on ice and digested by 200 U/ml Papain (Diamond) and Cysteine-HCL (Sigma). Then, samples were filtered through 70 μm cell strainers, centrifuged at 300× g  for 10 min, and further cleaned of red blood cells using red blood cell lysis buffer (Miltenyi Biotec). A Countstar Fluorescence Cell Analyzer was used for single-cell viability assessment, and live cells were further enriched by a MACS dead cell removal kit (Miltenyi Biotec).
L94:The Seurat package (version 3) was used for subsequent analysis. For mouse brain and bone marrow samples, cells with fewer than 1000 UMIs (300 genes) or with a mitochondrial gene ratio of more than 10 % were labeled as low-quality cells and removed. The function “NormalizeData” was applied via the “LogNormalize” method and a scale factor of 10,000 for 10 × Genomics scRNA-seq data. Highly variable genes were identified using the function “FindVariableFeatures”. The data integration across different bone marrow and brain samples were processed by the “SCTransform” function in Seurat V3 with standard processes to remove the noise from different experiment. Data scaling of UMI per cell and mitochondrial genes was regressed out using the “ScaleData” function. Before clustering, principal component analysis (PCA) was performed, and the first twenty principal components were used based on ElbowPlot. Clustering was performed using the “FindClusters” function with resolution = 1 and visualized using the “RunUMAP” function with the parameter dims = 1:20. Cluster-specific marker genes were identified using the “FindAllMarkers” function with min.pct = 0.25 and logfc.threshold = 0.25. Merged clusters in brain and bone marrow samples were identified using canonical markers from online databases and published literature for cell type annotation. Potential batch effects of stages, genders and genotype were evaluated by labeling individual cells in UMAP plot. Batch effects and noise have been removed during the SCTransform workflow.
L102:We used Velocity to calculate the RNA velocity of macrophages from 8-month bone marrow and brain samples. Mapped reads in barcoded cells were extracted to calculate the rate of transcriptional changes in each cell based on the ratio of spliced and unspliced reads ( http://velocyto.org/velocyto.py/tutorial/index.html ) with default parameters and generated the loom files. Cells were reclustered with Scanpy. The results were visualized with UMAP, and the differentiation start and end points were estimated using a Markov process ( https://github.com/rajewsky-lab/planarian_lineage ).
L103:Ligand-receptor analysis between brain and bone marrow cell types
L104:We used CellChat (version 1.4.0) to analyze potential receptor-ligand pairings. We aggregated the gene expression levels of mouse brain parenchymal cells and myeloid cells from mouse bone marrow. Receptors and ligands expressed in more than 10 % of the cells in each cluster were considered. We also used secreted signaling for cell–cell communication analysis and filtered out communication in fewer than 10 cells. The cutoff was set with a mean expression greater than 0.05 and P values smaller than 0.05. We used the sum of the number of receptor–ligand pairs in each cell–cell pairing to indicate the strength of the cell–cell interactions.
L109:Mouse lumbar and lower limbs were stripped of soft tissue, fixed in 4 % PFA overnight at 4 °C, and then stored in 70 % ethanol until scanning. The L1-6 vertebral bodies and left femurs were selected for scanning by using micro-CT (Skyscan1176, USA Bruker) with the following parameter settings: source voltage, 50 kV; source current, 450 μA; AI 0.5 mm filter; pixel size 9 μm; rotation step, 0.4°. The obtained images were reconstructed with NRecon software (Bruker microCT, Kontich, Belgium) using the following parameter settings: ring artifact correction, 8; smoothing, 2; beam hardening correction, 30 %. A refined volume of interest was generated 0.45 mm above or under the vertebral/growth plate of the distal vertebral body/femur or proximal tibia and 1.8 mm in height. The region of interest (ROI) for trabecular bone within the above volume was manually defined. The constant threshold was set as 80–255, and then bone density parameters were analyzed by the program CTAn (Bruker microCT, Kontich, Belgium).
L111:We reconstituted 2-month-old C57BL/6J and FAD 4T  recipient mice with bone marrow cells (BMCs) obtained from the tibias and femurs of 2-month-old B6-G/R mice (GFP + ) (GemPharmatech Co., Ltd., T06163). The mice were first placed into a 43.2 × 48 x 38-cm chamber of the X-ray irradiation apparatus (Rad Source, RS2000) and exposed to 900 cGy of radiation without brain shielding. Subsequently, we injected 1 × 10 ^7  BMCs into the tail vein of the recipients 4 h after irradiation. The reconstitution of the immune system was evaluated 0.5, 2, 6 months after grafting using flow cytometry (FACS analysis) and immunofluorescence staining of brain tissue.
L139:11 Zhou R. Wang L. Chen L. Feng X. Zhou R. Xiang P. Bone marrow-derived GCA(+) immune cells drive Alzheimer's disease progression Adv Sci (Weinh) 10 2023 e2303402
L140:12 Dvir-Szternfeld R. Castellani G. Arad M. Cahalon L. Colaiuta S.P. Keren-Shaul H. Alzheimer's disease modification mediated by bone marrow-derived macrophages via a TREM2-independent pathway in mouse model of amyloidosis Nat Aging 2 2022 60 73 37118355
L141:13 Ding P. Gao C. Gao Y.S. Liu D.L. Li H. Xu J. Osteocytes regulate senescence of bone and bone marrow eLife 11 2022
L145:17 Yang C. Pang Y. Huang Y. Ye F. Chen X. Gao Y. Single-cell transcriptomics identifies premature aging features of TERC-deficient mouse brain and bone marrow Geroscience 2022
L206:**and bone marrow. a**, **b**, Confocal images and fluorescence intensity quantification show
L207:increased Cst7 expression in F4/80-positive myeloid cells in the brain and bone marrow. **c** - **d**,
L209:F4/80-positive myeloid cells in the brain and bone marrow (Data are representative of three
L220:genes in brain (up) and bone marrow (below). **d**, UMAP visualization showing clustering of
L234:bone marrow lymphocytes (B cells, T cells) and brain cells (from left to right: microglia,
L246:and WT mice at 0.5 months, 2 months and 6 months after bone marrow transplantation. **b**,
L252:**Extended Data Fig. 14. Schematic diagram of AD pathobiology in the bone marrow-brain**
L254:neuroinflammation and bone loss. In detail, myeloid-biased bone marrow output and decreased
[44ms]
