L1:Differentiating  Peromyscus leucopus  bone marrow-derived macrophages for characterization of responses to  Borrelia burgdorferi  and lipopolysaccharide
L9:Currently, most tools utilized in host-pathogen interaction studies depend on the use of human or mouse ( Mus musculus ) cells and tissues. While these species have led to countless breakthroughs in our understanding of infectious disease, there are undoubtedly important biological processes that are missed by limiting studies to these two vertebrate species. For instance, it is well-established that a common deermouse in North America,  Peromyscus leucopus , has unique interactions with microbes, which likely shape its ability to serve as a critical reservoir for numerous zoonotic pathogens, including a Lyme disease spirochete,  Borrelia burgdorferi . In this work, we expand the immunological toolkit to study  P. leucopus  biology by performing the first differentiation of deermouse bone marrow to macrophages using  P. leucopus  M-CSF producing HEK293T cells. We find that  P. leucopus  BMDMs generated through this method behave broadly very similarly to C57BL/6J macrophages generated with the L-929 supernatant, although RNA sequencing revealed modest differences in transcriptomic responses to  B. burgdorferi  and lipopolysaccharide. In particular, differences in Il-10 induction and caspase expression were observed between the species.
L16:The studies of  P. leucopus  transcriptomic responses to  B. burgdorferi  and LPS have largely been performed using tissues from infected animals ( 10 ,  11 ,  18 ,  20 ,  22 ) or skin fibroblasts ( 11 ,  24 ,  25 ). While powerful in providing initial descriptive data regarding the responses to bacterial stimuli, these methods have some limitations. Studies on bulk RNA sequencing produced from tissues harvested following infection have highlighted pathways important to host immune responses but lack the ability to attribute those changes to a specific cell population. Furthermore, the heterogeneity of these samples may bias the findings from sequencing toward bystander populations rather than the less abundant immune cell population, potentially producing a type 2 error in the analysis of the results. More specific inquiries into skin-derived fibroblasts have the benefit of greater sample homogeneity compared to whole tissues and are related to skin-based pathogenicity and  Borrelia  spp. transmission; however, they may not be representative of the central immune traits of the species because of their nature as a tissue-specific mesenchymal cell population. Notably, very few methods have been described to generate a specific immune cell population for the  ex vivo  study of host-pathogen interactions with  P. leucopus —although one study was able to isolate and stimulate peripheral macrophages following pretreatment of rodents with Freund’s adjuvant ( 26 ). Here, we describe the development of  P. leucopus  macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) secreting cells for the purpose of differentiating macrophages from flushed bone marrow. We characterize the macrophages and find that at the transcript level, they behave very similarly to  M. musculus  (C57BL/6J) bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) differentiated using the supernatant from L-929 cells, both during basal conditions and during stimulation with either  B. burgdorferi  (strain B31) or LPS (derived from  Salmonella enterica  serovar Minnesota R595). Some cross-species differences were observed in  Il10  expression and caspase expression. Together, these studies shed light on  P. leucopus  interactions with gram-negative microbes as well as lay the groundwork for future studies attempting to understand  P. leucopus -pathogen interactions.
L22:Two male and two female rodents from each species were used for BMDM generation. For each experiment, one rodent from each species (age- and sex-matched) was utilized for BMDM generation and used for all experiments in this manuscript. Thus, all data represent four independent experiments, with one exception. One male  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J was excluded from the RNA sequencing as multiple samples from that experiment had low RNA yields and quality, likely resulting from a technical issue during RNA isolation. Statistical tests performed throughout the paper are described in the appropriate figure legend. All statistics were performed using either GraphPad Prism 10 software or R version 4.3.1.
L27:L-929 cells (ATCC CCL-1) were cultured in DMEM +10% heat-inactivated FBS. HEK293T cells from ATCC (CRL-3216) were used to generate  P. leucopus  M-CSF-producing cells. HEK293T cells were grown in DMEM with 4.5 g/L glucose, L-glutamine, and sodium pyruvate (Corning MT10013CV) supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated FBS (R&D Systems 1304537A). A lentivirus construct for the expression of  P. leucopus -M-CSF (JSB_Ec11_Csf1,  Table 1 ) was transfected alongside three additional constructs (JSB_Ec12_pMD2_G_addg, JSB_Ec13_psPAX4_Min, JSB_Ec14_psPRTT_REV,  Table 1 ) to generate lentivirus. JSB_Ec11_Csf1 was generated by cloning into pLK4. pLK4 CMV mYFP MCS IRES-Puro (SB_5266) is a modular variant derived from the pLEX-MCS (Open Biosystems, Grand Island, NY) in the Bunnell lab ( 28 ). VSV-G pseudotyping vector pMD2.G (AddGene Plasmid 12259) was developed by Didier Trono. The lentiviral packaging vector psPAX4 (SB_5804) was derived from psPAX2 (AddGene Plasmid 12260) by deleting the sequences encoding REV and TAT. The accessory vector psPRTT (SB_5805) was assembled by installing a synthetic gBlock (IDT) encoding REV-T2A-TAT into the psPAX2 backbone. Together, psPAX4 and psPRTT constitute a split backbone 4th gen packaging system developed in the Bunnell Lab. Two days post-transfection, the viral supernatant was centrifuged at 200 x  g  for 5 minutes, filtered through a 0.45 µm PDVF filter, and used to transduce HEK293T cells. This cell pool was then grown in 1 µg/mL puromycin selection to purify an M-CSF-producing population. M-CSF-producing cells were maintained, cryopreserved, and used as uncloned pools following transduction.
L28:Bone marrow isolation and differentiation
L29:Rodents were euthanized with CO 2  and cervical spine dislocation following Tufts University IACUC guidelines. Bone marrow was flushed from the femur with sterile DMEM, as previously described ( 29 ).
L30:To generate  M. musculus  differentiation medium, L-929 cells were cultured for two passages. During the third passage, the L-929 culture was allowed to reach >80% confluency, and 2 days after achieving 80% density, the cell culture supernatant was collected and frozen at −20°C for later use as conditioned media for murine BMDM differentiation. Murine progenitors were cultured on 100 × 15 mm 2  plastic Petri dishes for 5–7 days in DMEM supplemented with 30% L-929 cell-conditioned medium and 20% FBS. Alternative differentiation was carried out with 20 ng/mL recombinant murine M-CSF (Peprotech, #315–02) in DMEM +20% FBS.
L31:To generate  P. leucopus  M-CSF, transduced HEK293T cells were passaged to approximately 50% confluence in the presence of 1 µg/mL puromycin and allowed to reach 80% confluency. The culture was continued for 2 additional days, and the supernatant was collected, filtered through a 0.22 µm PES syringe filter, and stored at −20°C for use in BMDM differentiation. Bone marrow from  P. leucopus  was differentiated in DMEM supplemented with 30% HEK293T M-CSF  cell supernatant and 20% heat-inactivated FBS in 100 × 15 mm 2  sterile dishes or in 6-well plates.
L49:Development of a  P. leucopus  BMDM differentiation method
L50:For many years, innate immune research has relied on recombinant or cell line-derived M-CSF to differentiate monocyte cell populations from mouse and human samples ( 42 ,  43 ). However, these tools have not yet been validated and/or generated for use with  P. leucopus . Amino acid sequence identity between  M. musculus  and  P. leucopus  M-CSF is quite high (81.9% Identity) ( Fig. 1A ) ,  indicating that it could be possible to differentiate  P. leucopus  BMDMs in a culture media containing  M. musculus  M-CSF from the L-929 supernatant, as is frequently performed for  M. musculus  BMDM generation ( 42 ,  44 ). First, differentiation of  P. leucopus  BMDM was attempted by utilizing the murine M-CSF-enriched L-929 cell supernatant on flushed bone marrow from C57BL/6J  M .  musculus  and  P. leucopus . C57BL/6J bone marrow examined by phase contrast microscopy over a week of differentiation demonstrated changes in the morphology and an increase in density, consistent with BMDM differentiation; however, the same was not observed with bone marrow from  P. leucopus  ( Fig. 1B ). Thus, we conclude that  M. musculus  M-CSF is insufficient to differentiate  P. leucopus  bone marrow into BMDMs. We speculated that a  P. leucopus -specific M-CSF could have higher differentiation efficiency. To generate  P. leucopus  M-CSF, we transduced a human codon-optimized, pCMV-driven  P. leucopus Csf1  gene into HEK293T cells via self-inactivating lentivirus ( 28 ) ( Fig. 1C ).  P. leucopus  bone marrow was incubated with media enriched with the supernatant derived from  P. leucopus  M-CSF-expressing HEK293T cells (HEK293T M-CSF ) over 6 days. Observation by phase contrast microscopy showed similar changes in cell proliferation, morphology, and adhesion to the plate as C57BL/6J bone marrow incubated with L-929 enriched media ( Fig. 1B and D ). To compare the relative changes in cell size and quantity during differentiation, BMDMs produced by either enriched media from L-929 cells or HEK293T M-CSF  were measured by flow cytometry at a fixed sample volume. There were species-specific differences in the extent of cell proliferation, but both enriched media produced analogous populations of similar sizes by forward scatter histogram ( Fig. 1E ). To confirm differentiated cell identity, we performed reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) to assess the expression of hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) and monocyte markers— Kit  and  Cd68,  accordingly. The L-929 supernatant was able to induce  Cd68  in C57BL/6J bone marrow-derived cells ( Fig. 1F ), and the HEK293T M-CSF  supernatant was able to induce expression in  P. leucopus  bone marrow-derived cells ( Fig. 1G ). Similarly, differentiating C57BL/6 J cells had reduced expression in  Kit  ( Fig. 1H ), and a similar trend was observed with  P. leucopus  ( P  = 0.09,  Fig. 1I ). Together, these data suggest that our HEK293T M-CSF  cells are capable of inducing  P. leucopus  BMDMs, comparable to L-929-driven C57BL/6J BMDM generation.
L51:Fig 1 P. leucopus -specific M-CSF enables differentiation of bone marrow into macrophages. ( A )  P. leucopus Csf1  shares substantial amino acid identity (81.9%) with  M. musculus  M-CSF. Differences in the amino acid sequence are depicted with red dashes. Gaps are depicted by white space. Identical amino acids are depicted in gray. ( B ) The L-929 supernatant is able to induce C57BL6/6J bone marrow differentiation into macrophages, but not  P. leucopus  bone marrow. Phase contrast microscopy was taken at days 0, 3, and 6 of the differentiation procedure. ( C ) Schematic of  P. leucopus  M-CSF generation. Generated using Biorender.com and the NIH BioArt Source. ( D ) Supernatant from HEK293T M-CSF  cells is able to induce  P. leucopus  bone marrow differentiation into macrophages. ( E ) C57BL/6J bone marrow cells treated with the L-929 supernatant or  P. leucopus  bone marrow cells treated with the HEK293T M-CSF  supernatant undergo changes in cell abundance and size. Flow cytometry was performed on a fixed volume of cells at days 0, 3, and 6 of the differentiation procedure to measure the FSC-A. ( F through I ) C57BL/6J bone marrow cells treated with the L-929 supernatant or  P. leucopus  bone marrow cells treated with the HEK293T M-CSF  supernatant upregulate  Cd68  ( F, G ) and downregulate  Kit  ( H, I ). RT-qPCR was performed 6 days into the differentiation procedure.  P -values were calculated by a one-sample  t -test comparing the log-transformed fold change values to a predicted value of 0. Panels B, D, and E are representative of four independent experiments. Panels F–I summarize four experiments, where each point represents an individual mouse. Closed circles represent males, and open circles represent females. Bars mark the mean, and error bars represent the standard error of the mean. Phase contrast micrographs were captured using an ECHO Rebel. For Panels B and D, the scale bar represents 135 µm.
L52:P. leucopus  BMDMs have similar polarization under unstimulated conditions to C57BL/6J BMDMs
L53:In order to understand how  P. leucopus  BMDMs compare to C57BL/6J BMDMs in their behavior and response to pathogenic stimuli, we first wanted to ensure that technical differences in the differentiation protocols did not bias the macrophages toward different inflammatory phenotypes at baseline. To examine this question, we performed a small RNA sequencing experiment to compare the transcriptomes of  P. leucopus  BMDMs ( n  = 3) and C57BL/6J BMDMs generated with the L-929 supernatant ( n  = 3) under unstimulated conditions ( File S6 ). We found that principal component analysis could distinguish between the two species based on their transcriptome by the first principal component (56.52% of the variation), indicating that transcriptional differences across the cells exist ( Fig. 2A ). However, we observed no statistically significant differences in M1-like and M2-like polarization markers ( 45 ,  46 ) ( Fig. 2B ), leading us to conclude that the differentiation protocols generate macrophages that are sufficiently similar to enable direct comparison. While M1 and M2 macrophage classifications simplify the heterogeneity of potential macrophage responses, the use of these identifiers provides a useful heuristic for determining species-specific differences between BMDMs derived  ex vivo  from a naïve cell population ( 47 ,  48 ).
L54:Fig 2 P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs display similar behaviors during baseline conditions. ( A ) Principal component analysis can distinguish between  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDM transcriptomes at baseline. RNA sequencing performed on three sets of  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs and analyzed by principal component analysis. ( B ) M1 and M2 polarization markers ( 45 ,  46 ) are similar between the two species at baseline. Each dot represents the transcripts per million for each gene under baseline conditions. No statistically significant differences in expression were observed by performing multiple t tests on the log-transformed values with a Holm-Šídák test to correct for multiple comparisons. ( C, D )  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDM phagocytosis of  B. burgdorferi  and colocalization with LAMP1 phagosomes. Representative images taken 30 minutes post  B. burgdorferi  co-incubation. Scale bar represents 22 µm. ( E–G ) Quantification of microscopy does not reveal differences in  B. burgdorferi  phagocytosis (E) or phagosomal maturation (F, G) across species. Each point represents a single mouse, closed circles represent males, and open circles represent females. Bars mark the mean, and error bars represent the standard error of the mean.  P -values calculated by two-way ANOVA with Dunnett correction for multiple comparisons. ( H–K ) Analysis of  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J proteolysis ( H, J ) and phagosome acidification ( I, K ). Fc receptor-mediated phagocytosis of proteolysis and pH-sensitive beads brings beads to the phagolysosome where we observe increased ratiometric signals from DQ-BSA proteolysis ( H, J ) and reduced ratiometric signals from acidic fluorochrome degradation ( I, K ). Proteolysis and acidification were measured for C57BL/6J using the L-929 supernatant and recombinant M-CSF (rM-CSF). The ratio of the carboxyfluorescein fluorescence signal at excitation 490 nm (pH-sensitive) versus 450 nm (pH-insensitive) provides a readout of relative pH ( I, K ). Panels H and I include a “Beads Only” control, where the fluorescence was measured in wells containing beads but no macrophages. Inhibitor treatments of concanamycin A (100 ng/mL) prevent proteolysis ( J ) and acidification ( K ) in both species, while cytochalasin D (10 ug/mL) inhibits phagocytosis of the beads ( J, K ). For Panels J and K, C57BL/6J macrophages were differentiated with the L-929 supernatant. P-values for H and I were generated by two-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s multiple comparison test. H–K represent summarized data from four experiments where symbols mark the mean and error bars the standard error of the mean.
L55:P. leucopus  BMDMs have similar proteolysis but potentially altered phagosome acidification to C57BL/6J BMDMs
L56:The ability for macrophages to phagocytose and process pathogens is critical to the innate immune system’s ability to restrain infection. Not only do these processes result in pathogen destruction, but also phagosomal maturation and proteolysis influence subsequent immune responses reliant on ligand detection by pattern recognition receptors and antigen processing for display by the major histocompatibility complex ( 49 ,  50 ). We sought to examine the ability of  P. leucopus  macrophages to phagocytose  B. burgdorferi  and the rate at which the phagosome becomes associated with LAMP1, which marks stages of lysosomal development ( 31 ,  34 ). Phagocytosis was examined by confocal microscopy after co-incubating BMDMs with  B. burgdorferi  for 5, 15, and 30 minutes ( Fig. 2C and D ). No significant differences in total phagocytosis or LAMP1 colocalization were observed between species ( Fig. 2E through G ).
L57:We further examined phagosomal maturation and activity in the species. We utilized a pair of silica bead-based systems with pH-sensitive carboxyfluorescein and dye-quenched bovine serum albumin (DQ-BSA)/AF594 conjugates to assess acidification and proteolysis, respectively ( 37 ). Co-incubation of the DQ-BSA/AF594 beads with BMDMs demonstrated a lack of statistically different proteolysis between the two species ( Fig. 2H ), while the pH-sensitive carboxyfluorescein beads revealed reduced acidification in  P. leucopus  macrophages ( Fig. 2I ). The similar levels of proteolysis between both species ( Fig. 2H ), paired with greater acidic activity in C57BL/6J BMDMs ( Fig. 2I ), indicate that while the proteolytic outcomes of the phagosomes in each species are similar, there are discrepancies in phagosomal acidification, which may be indicative of species-dependent differences in phagosomal maturation. We also performed both assays with C57BL6/J BMDMs generated with recombinant M-CSF and did not find a statistically significant difference between these cells and  P. leucopus  BMDMs for either phenotype ( Fig. 2H and I ), making it unclear whether this subtle acidification phenotype plays a role in driving interspecies differences—particularly with the small sample size used in these studies ( n  = 4). We found these processes were sensitive to concanamycin A (100 ng/mL) and cytochalasin D (10 µg/mL) in both species ( Fig. 2J and K ).
L58:P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs exhibit modest differences in their transcriptomic profiles following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation
L59:We next sought to understand whether we could observe differences in the immunological response of  P. leucopus  and  M. musculus  BMDMs to bacterial stimuli. To do this, we performed a small pilot RNA sequencing experiment in which BMDMs from three rodents per species (two females and one male) were stimulated either with  B. burgdorferi  B31 or LPS for 10 hours.
L60:Following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation, principal component analysis clearly separated macrophages from  P. leucopus  or C57BL/6J mice along the first principal component (41.76% of the variation). Curiously, while the second component (22.59% of the variation) was able to separate unstimulated and stimulated C57BL/6J macrophages, this separation was less successful for the  P. leucopus  BMDMs ( Fig. 3A ). We successfully mapped reads to 13,885  P .  leucopus  genes (≥10 reads across all samples per gene) and found 1,999 differentially expressed genes (p adj  ≤0.05, log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1), including 882 upregulated genes and 1,117 downregulated genes ( Fig. 3B ;  File S2 ). We successfully mapped reads to 15,282  M .  musculus  genes (≥10 reads across all samples per gene) and found 3,672 differentially expressed genes—1,691 upregulated and 1,981 downregulated ( Fig. 3C ;  File S3 ). Restricting the analyses to genes detected in both species allowed for examination of 9,806 genes—1,473 of which were differentially expressed in  P. leucopus  BMDMs (647 upregulated and 826 downregulated) and 2,490 differentially expressed in C57BL/6J BMDMs (1,133 upregulated and 1,357 downregulated) ( File S7 ). Examining M1-like and M2-like polarization markers ( 45 ,  46 ) revealed a modest shift toward M1-like polarization phenotype among  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J macrophages following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation ( Fig. 3D ). Using the QIAGEN Ingenuity Pathway Analysis tool ( 41 ) revealed robust evidence of numerous canonical pathways becoming activated in both species, including interleukin-10 signaling, interleukin-1 family signaling, and NF-κB activation ( Fig. 3E ,  File S8 ). A small number of pathways showed differential predicted activation, including communication between innate and adaptive immune cells, wound healing signaling, and IL-12 signaling (predicted activated in  P. leucopus  but not C57BL/6J) and the KEAP1-NFE2L2 pathway, NOTCH4 pathway, and LPS-stimulated MAPK signaling (predicted activated in C57BL/6J macrophages, but not  P. leucopus ).
L61:Fig 3 Comparison of  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDM responses to  B. burgdorferi  B31. ( A ) Principal component analysis is able to distinguish between  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation (strain B31, multiplicity of infection 100, and 10-hour stimulation). ( B, C ) Multiple genes are differentially expressed in ( B )  P. leucopus  or ( C ) C57BL/6J BMDMs following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation. Adjusted  P  values (padj) are calculated based on a false discovery rate. Genes with an adjusted  P  value ≤ 0.05 and log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1 are depicted as red or dark gray dots. ( D )  P. leucopus  and C57BL6/J BMDMs display similar changes in the expression of M1 and M2 polarization markers ( 45 ,  46 ) following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation. Listed  P -values are the same FDR corrected  P -values generated in panels B and C. ( E )  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J display activation of similar pathways following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation. Pathway analysis was performed with the QIAGEN Ingenuity Pathway Analysis tool ( 41 ) using a  P -value cutoff of <0.05 and log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1. Top 50 pathways are depicted here. ( F )  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs display some differences in gene expression following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation. All genes with a padj ≤0.05 in one or both conditions are plotted according to their log 2  fold change in each species. Dots in gray are differentially expressed in the same direction in each species. Dots in blue are differentially expressed in C57BL/6J BMDMs but not differentially expressed (padj >0.05 and/or log 2 fold change < 1 and > −1) in  P. leucopus  BMDMs. Dots in orange are differentially expressed in  P. leucopus  BMDMs but not differentially expressed (padj >0.05 and/or log 2 fold change < 1 and > −1) in  P. leucopus  BMDMs. Dots in red and green are differentially expressed in opposite directions across the two species. All data are from three independent experiments with three rodents (two females and one male) from each species.
L62:Based on our cutoffs (p adj  ≤0.05, log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1), numerous genes were differentially expressed in one species but either (a) not differentially expressed or (b) exhibited an opposite direction of effect in the other species (790 genes were uniquely upregulated in C57BL/6J BMDMs, 304 genes were uniquely upregulated in  P. leucopus  BMDMs, 986 genes were uniquely downregulated in C57BL/6J BMDMs, and 455 genes were uniquely downregulated in  P. leucopus  BMDMs) ( Fig. 3F ;  File S7 ). During manual examination of genes upregulated specifically in  P. leucopus  BMDMs, we noted multiple genes involved in inflammation, including  Il1r1 ,  Il1r2 ,  Il1rl1 ,  Il18 ,  Gata3 ,  Ncf1 , and  Tifa . Manual examination of immunity-associated genes upregulated in  M. musculus  but not  P. leucopus  BMDMs includes  Ccl22 ,  Il17rd ,  Il20rb ,  Il2rg ,  Il7 ,  Mcoln2 , and  Trim13 . We note that examining the 77 genes specifically with differential expression in the opposite direction of effect across the two species revealed only a few additional genes canonically associated with immunity, including  Casp1 ,  Sod3,  and  Traf5  (upregulated in C57BL/6J and downregulated in  P. leucopus ), as well as  Il15  and  Casp3  (upregulated in  P. leucopus  and downregulated in C57BL/6J).
L63:P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs exhibit modest differences in their transcriptomic profiles following LPS stimulation
L64:Comparing  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs stimulated with LPS revealed many of the same observations as comparing the species following  B. burgdorferi  stimulation. Principal component analysis was able to separate the species along the first principal component (40.96% of the variation), but was only able to distinguish between the stimulation status for C57BL/6J macrophages along the second principal component (19.68% of the variation) ( Fig. 4A ). Transcripts for 13,599  P .  leucopus  genes were quantified, and 1,142 genes were upregulated in response to LPS, while 1,069 genes were downregulated (p adj  ≤0.05, log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1) ( Fig. 4B ;  File S4 ). Of 14,967 genes quantified in C57BL/6J macrophages, 1,546 were upregulated in response to LPS and 1,392 genes were downregulated ( Fig. 4C ;  File S5 ). Restricting the analyses to genes that were detectable in both data sets limited the analysis to 9,691 genes—1,541 were differentially expressed in  P. leucopus  BMDMs (791 upregulated and 750 downregulated) and 1,916 were differentially expressed in C57BL/6J BMDMs (935 upregulated and 981 downregulated) ( File S9 ). Both  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs displayed a modest shift toward M1-like-associated gene expression following stimulation ( Fig. 4D ). Leveraging the QIAGEN Ingenuity Pathway Analysis tool ( 41 ) again revealed strong evidence of interleukin-10 signaling, interleukin-1 family signaling, and NF-κB signaling, as well as activation of several other immune-related and cell death pathways ( Fig. 4E ;  File S8 ). A small number of differences across species was observed, including actin nucleation by the ARP-WAS complex (predicted activated in  P. leucopus , suppressed in C57BL/6J); O-linked glycosylation and NOTCH pathways (predicted activated in  P. leucopus , not activated in C57BL/6J); interleukin-3, interleukin-7, interleukin-27, CD40, and LPS-stimulated MAPK signaling pathways (predicted activated in C57BL/6J, but not  P. leucopus ); and curiously. multiple mitosis-related pathways (predicted activated in C57BL/6J and suppressed or not activated in  P. leucopus )
L65:Fig 4 Comparison of  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDM responses to LPS. ( A ) Principal component analysis is able to distinguish between  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs following LPS stimulation (10-hour stimulation). ( B, C ) Multiple genes are differentially expressed in ( B )  P. leucopus  or ( C ) C57BL/6J BMDMs following LPS stimulation. Adjusted  P -values (padj) are calculated based on a false discovery rate. Genes with an adjusted  P -value ≤ 0.05 & log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1 are depicted in red or dark gray. ( D )  P. leucopus  and C57BL6/J BMDMs display similar changes in expression of M1 and M2 polarization markers ( 45 ,  46 ) following LPS stimulation.  P -values are the same FDR-corrected  P -values in panels B and C. ( E )  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J display activation of similar pathways following LPS stimulation. Pathway analysis was performed with the QIAGEN Ingenuity Pathway Analysis tool ( 41 ) using genes p adj  ≤0.05, log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1. The top 50 pathways are depicted here. ( F )  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J BMDMs display some differences in gene expression following LPS stimulation. All genes with a padj ≤0.05 and log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1 in one or both species are plotted according to their log 2  fold change in each species. Dots in gray are differentially expressed in the same direction in each species. Dots in blue are differentially expressed in C57BL/6J BMDMs but not differentially expressed (padj >0.05 and/or log 2 fold change > 1 and < −1) in  P. leucopus  BMDMs. Dots in orange are differentially expressed in  P. leucopus  BMDMs but not differentially expressed (padj >0.05 and/or log 2 fold change > 1 and < −1) in  P. leucopus  BMDMs. Dots in red and green are differentially expressed in opposite directions across the two species. All data are from three independent experiments with three rodents (two females and one male) from each species.
L66:Similar to our analysis of  B. burgdorferi -induced gene expression changes, we next examined genes that were differentially expressed in one species but not the other and/or exhibited opposite direction of differential expression in response to LPS ( Fig. 4F ;  File S9 ). We identified 379 genes that were uniquely upregulated and 502 genes that were uniquely downregulated in  P. leucopus  BMDMs, as well as 523 genes that were uniquely upregulated and 733 genes uniquely downregulated in C57BL/6J BMDMs. We note multiple interesting trends, including that expressions of  Casp3 ,  Il10, Il10ra ,  Il15 ,  Il1r2 ,  Il1rl1 ,  Rab11a ,  Tlr7,  and  Traf7  were upregulated in  P. leucopus  but not C57BL/6J. Conversely,  Casp1 ,  Casp7 ,  Il17rd ,  Il20rb ,  Il21r , and  Il7  expressions were upregulated in C57BL/6J, but not in  P. leucopus . Fifty-one genes were upregulated in  P. leucopus  but downregulated in C57BL/6J BMDMs, and 31 genes were upregulated in C57BL/6J but downregulated in  P. leucopus .
L67:Comparison of BMDM gene expression in response to LPS with rodent and fibroblast studies
L68:Substantial past work has sought to understand  P. leucopus  transcriptomic responses to LPS, and so we sought to examine how well our  ex vivo  phenotypes could recapitulate past findings. Specifically, we compared our data from  P. leucopus  and  M. musculus  BMDMs to a previous study by Milovic et al. of  P. leucopus  and  M. musculus  RNA sequencing of blood following LPS injection (4 hours post-injection) ( 10 ). Restricting the analysis to genes that were differentially expressed (p adj  ≤0.05, log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1) both in our data set and the Milovic et al. data set revealed a positive association ( r 2  = 0.22) with  P. leucopus  ( Fig. 5A ) and a weak but still statistically significant relationship with outbred CD-1  M. musculus  ( r 2  = 0.033) ( Fig. 5B ). We next examined the association between the LPS-induced transcriptome in  P. leucopus  BMDMs (10-hour stimulation,  Fig. 4 ) and previous results obtained by Balderrama-Gutierrez et al. with skin fibroblasts (24 hour stimulation, ( 11 )). Examining genes that were differentially expressed in both data sets revealed a weak ( r 2  = 0.035) association between BMDM and skin fibroblast gene expression ( Fig. 5C ). Of note, the fibroblast data set has a weaker association ( r 2  = 0.022) ( Fig. 5D ) with differential gene expression in the Milovic et al . P. leucopus  data set than we observed with BMDMs (r 2  = 0.22) ( Fig. 5A ). This appears to be driven by (i) a variable number of differentially expressed genes shared between the data sets (813 between macrophages and blood compared to 214 genes between fibroblasts and blood) and (ii) substantially more volatile gene expression changes in fibroblasts following stimulation (for example,  Nfkb2  has a log 2 -fold change of 2.35 in blood, 3.00 in BMDMs, and 2,569.39 in fibroblasts). While these differences could be attributed to differences in exposure time to LPS, they may also highlight differences in LPS processing and responsiveness between non-immune cell subtypes (fibroblasts) and immune cells (peripheral blood cells or BMDMs). We also note that while methods of culturing primary fibroblasts from skin enrich for fibroblasts, there are likely additional cell types present in primary fibroblast cultures, which could also be contributing to these differences.
L69:Fig 5 Comparison of  P. leucopus  BMDM responses to LPS with previously reported  in vivo  phenotypes. ( A, B ) There is a positive correlation between gene expression changes observed with LPS stimulation in ( A )  P. leucopus  and ( B ) C57BL/6J BMDMs and the blood transcriptomes following LPS injection ( 10 ). ( C ) There is a weak positive correlation between  P. leucopus  BMDM and fibroblast gene expression changes ( 11 ) following LPS stimulation. ( D ) There is a weak positive correlation between  P. leucopus  fibroblasts and  P. leucopus  blood gene expression ( 10 ) following LPS stimulation. For panels A–D, only genes differentially expressed (p adj  ≤0.05, log 2 fold change ≥ 1 or ≤ −1) in both data sets were examined. r 2  and  P -values were calculated based on a simple linear regression (plotted in red). ( E )  Casp1  gene expression is higher in C57BL/6J macrophages and lower in  P. leucopus  blood following LPS stimulation ( 10 ). ( F )  Casp3  gene expression is elevated in  P. leucopus  BMDMs and livers ( 11 ), but not blood ( 10 ) following LPS stimulation. For panels E and F,  P -values for BMDM gene expression were generated by the FDR-corrected  P -values.  P -values for blood and liver are based on the reported  P -values from the publications from which they were derived ( 10 ,  11 ).
L70:Of particular note, in the above section, we found that  Casp1  expression was upregulated in C57BL/6J macrophages, but not differentially expressed in  P. leucopus  macrophages following LPS stimulation ( Fig. 5E ). Interestingly,  P. leucopus  appears to downregulate  Casp1  in blood following LPS injection, while there is no difference in the expression in CD-1  M. musculus  ( 10 ) ( Fig. 5E ). Thus, the relative relationship between  Casp1  expression across the species is preserved in BMDMs and blood. Curiously, another component of the pyroptosis pathway,  Nlrp3 , is upregulated in both C57BL/6J and  P. leucopus  macrophages, but others have found that CD-1 mice downregulate the gene expression, while  P. leucopus  upregulate it in blood during LPS exposure ( 10 ). Relatedly,  Casp3  was found to be upregulated in  P. leucopus , but remained unchanged in C57BL/6J BMDMs ( Fig. 5F ). However, in animals, while  Casp3  was not differentially expressed in  P. leucopus  blood in response to LPS ( 10 )—other work found it was specifically upregulated in  P. leucopus , and not BALB/c  M. musculus , livers during LPS treatment (4 hours post injection) ( 11 ) ( Fig. 5F ). Taken together, these data suggest that there may be cross-species differences in pyroptosis pathway activation during LPS stimulation.
L72:To our knowledge, this work represents the first published use of bone marrow-derived macrophages for any  Peromyscus  species. Numerous zoonotic pathogens ( B. burgdorferi ,  Borrelia miyamotoi, Borrelia bissettii , Powassan Virus,  Anaplasma phagocytophilum ,  Babesia microti ,  Ehrlichia muris ,  Bartonella  species, and Hantavirus, among others) are confirmed or suspected to be present in  P. leucopus  as a reservoir ( 2 – 8 ), meaning that the host-pathogen interactions in this species have direct impacts on human health by enabling zoonotic spillover. Therefore, expanding the toolkit to study immunological responses in  P. leucopus  represents an opportunity to better understand how pathogens colonize and transmit through this rodent.
L73:In this work, we benchmarked  P. leucopus  BMDM behavior to the well-studied C57BL/6 J  M. musculus  strain. We determined that M-CSF secreted by HEK293T M-CSF  was sufficient to differentiate BMDMs from  P. leucopus  in a manner similar to L-929 conditioned media used on  M. musculus  BMDMs. We qualified this by changes in cell size, expression of genes related to cell markers  Cd68  and  Kit , and visual comparisons by phase contrast microscopy. This novel HEK293T M-CSF  cell pool will be instrumental for future differentiation of  P. leucopus  monocytes for the study of  Borrelial  infection as well as other zoonotic pathogens that canonically infect  P. leucopus . While the application of this method is in its infancy, these results are an important step for utilizing  P. leucopus  as a model organism in a research setting.
L74:We also performed pilot experiments using a small number of mice in which we stimulated BMDMs with  B. burgdorferi  and LPS. This study identified putative interesting transcriptional changes both unique and shared between stimulations and species. Many genes upregulated by  P. leucopus  during  B. burgdorferi  stimulation are related to IL-1 family receptors and cell death pathways, including the executioner caspase,  Casp3 . Comparatively, C57BL/6J responses to  Bb  included upregulation of the pyroptosis-related gene  Casp1 , as well as multiple cytokines and chemoattractants typically associated with T-helper cell activity, and specifically Th17 cells. Interestingly,  P. leucopus  downregulates  Casp1  in response to  B. burgdorferi  while still upregulating  Il1b , indicating that  P. leucopus  are potentially translating enough pro-Il-1β to reliably carry out pyroptosis, but downregulating the transcription of  Casp1  to reduce the amount of Caspase-1, preventing the cleavage reaction that creates immunologically active Il-1β ( 51 ,  52 ).
L77:Bacterial strain is another important consideration for immune stimulation. The  B. burgdorferi  B31 wild-type strain is a common choice for performing bacterial stimulations; however, it may not be representative of the  B. burgdorferi  strains that have co-evolved with  P. leucopus . Recent work has demonstrated that different  B. burgdorferi  lineages are more or less likely to successfully use  P. leucopus  as a reservoir ( 15 ,  24 ,  58 ), which correlates with  in vitro  phenotypes ( 24 ). Thus, future work may benefit from screening divergent responses of these macrophages to different  B. burgdorferi  strains. Beyond  B. burgdorferi , other zoonotic pathogens (Powassan virus,  Anaplasma phagocytophilum , and  Ehrlichia  spp.) utilize phagocytes during host colonization and pathogenesis ( 6 ,  59 ,  60 ), meaning these tools could be used to better understand their interactions with  P. leucopus . In particular, leveraging intraspecies natural host diversity in Powassan virus-macrophage studies has previously yielded insights into key host-pathogen interactions ( 61 ), and we hope the ability to use inter-species diversity could provide further insights into Powassan virus resistance and pathogenesis. Finally, the M-CSF-producing cells generated here could be used to differentiate monocytic cells from the periphery rather than common monocyte progenitors from the bone marrow. The stimuli experienced by cells after hematopoiesis are crucial for the diversity of macrophage responses that contribute to disease phenotypes, and while our investigation of naïve cells highlights implicit differences between species, even more may be understood by examining  P. leucopus  innate phenotypes with greater breadth.
L84:Data S1 iai.00581-24-s0001.txt Plasmid map of JSB_Ec11  P. leucopus  M-CSF producing construct.
L85:Data S2 iai.00581-24-s0002.csv P. leucopus  BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to  B. burgdorferi .
L86:Data S3 iai.00581-24-s0003.csv C57BL/6J BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to  B. burgdorferi .
L87:Data S4 iai.00581-24-s0004.csv P. leucopus  BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to LPS.
L88:Data S5 iai.00581-24-s0005.csv C57BL/6J BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to LPS.
L89:Data S6 iai.00581-24-s0006.csv Transcript Per Million data for C57BL/6J &  P. leucopus  BMDMs.
L90:Data S7 iai.00581-24-s0007.csv BMDM differentially expressed gene analysis, restricted to genes present in  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J datasets, in response to  B. burgdorferi .
L92:Data S9 iai.00581-24-s0009.csv BMDM differentially expressed gene analysis, restricted to genes present in  P. leucopus  and C57BL/6J datasets, in response to LPS.
L402: D .  2022 .  Mouse bone marrow cell isolation and macrophage differentiation .  Methods Mol Biol 
L405: K .  1998 .  Biological activities and clinical application of M-CSF .  Int J Hematol 
L409: B .  1985 .  The role of growth factors and interferons in the induction of activated murine macrophages from bone marrow precursors .  Immunol Lett 
L562:We thank Tufts Comparative Medical Services for maintenance of the rodents used in this study. Confocal microscopy was performed using the Tufts Center for Neuroscience Imaging and Cell Analysis Core. Flow cytometry was performed with help from the Tufts School of Medicine Flow Cytometry Core. The plasmid schematic in Figure 1 was generated using graphics from Biorender.com and the NIH BioArt Source. The plasmid schematic in File S1 was generated on Benchling.com. We thank Dr. Ryan Finethy for advice on bone-marrow-derived macrophage cultivation, Dr. Alan Barbour for DNA sequencing a member of our Peromyscus colony, as well as past and present members of Dr. Linden Hu’s lab for feedback and support (particularly Dr. Peter Gwynne, Dr. Cecilia Silva, Kee-Lee Stocks, Yuelin Zhong, Stephanie You, Muskan Shrestha, Emily Vu, and Abigail Rivera Seda).
L738:Supplemental File 1: Plasmid map of JSB_Ec11 P. leucopus M-CSF producing construct
L739:Supplemental File 2: P. leucopus BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to B. burgdorferi
L740:Supplemental File 3: C57BL/6J BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to B. burgdorferi
L741:Supplemental File 4: P. leucopus BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to LPS
L742:Supplemental File 5: C57BL/6J BMDM differentially expressed gene expression analysis in response to LPS
L743:Supplemental File 6: Transcript Per Million data for C57BL/6J & P. leucopus BMDMs
L744:Supplemental File 7: BMDM differentially expressed gene analysis, restricted to genes present in P. leucopus and C57BL/6J datasets, in response to B. burgdorferi
L746:Supplemental File 9: BMDM differentially expressed gene analysis, restricted to genes present in P. leucopus and C57BL/6J datasets, in response to LPS
[89ms]
