L1:Wild-type bone marrow cells repopulate tissue resident macrophages and reverse the impacts of homozygous CSF1R mutation
L13:Adaptation to existence outside the womb is a key event in the life of a mammal. The absence of macrophages in rats with a homozygous mutation in the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor ( Csf1r)  gene ( Csf1rko ) severely compromises pre-weaning somatic growth and maturation of organ function. Transfer of wild-type bone marrow cells (BMT) at weaning rescues tissue macrophage populations permitting normal development and long-term survival. To dissect the phenotype and function of macrophages in postnatal development, we generated transcriptomic profiles of all major organs of wild-type and  Csf1rko  rats at weaning and in selected organs following rescue by BMT. The transcriptomic profiles revealed subtle effects of macrophage deficiency on development of all major organs. Network analysis revealed a common signature of CSF1R-dependent resident tissue macrophages that includes the components of complement C1Q ( C1qa/b/c  genes). Circulating C1Q was almost undetectable in  Csf1rko  rats and rapidly restored to normal levels following BMT. Tissue-specific macrophage signatures were also identified, notably including sinus macrophage populations in the lymph nodes. Their loss in  Csf1rko  rats was confirmed by immunohistochemical localisation of CD209B (SIGNR1). By 6-12 weeks,  Csf1rko  rats succumb to emphysema-like pathology associated with the selective loss of interstitial macrophages and granulocytosis. This pathology was reversed by BMT. Along with physiological rescue, BMT precisely regenerated the abundance and expression profiles of resident macrophages. The exception was the brain, where BM-derived microglia-like cells had a distinct expression profile compared to resident microglia. In addition, the transferred BM failed to restore blood monocyte or CSF1R-positive bone marrow progenitors. These studies provide a model for the pathology and treatment of CSF1R mutations in humans and the innate immune deficiency associated with prematurity.
L17:The differentiation, development and survival of resident tissue macrophages is controlled by signals from the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (CSF1R) and its two ligands, CSF1 and IL34 [ 10 ]. Homozygous recessive mutations in the human  CSF1R  gene lead to severe postnatal developmental abnormalities [ 11 , 12 ]. Homozygous  Csf1r  mutation in inbred FVB/J mice produces pre-weaning lethality [ 13 ], which can be rescued in around 50% of pups by neonatal bone marrow cell transfer [ 14 ]. To provide an alternative model for CSF1R deficiency syndrome, and to dissect the functions of macrophages in development, we mutated the  Csf1r  gene in the rat [ 15 ]. Despite the loss of the abundant macrophage populations in the embryo, which are ablated in  Csf1rko  embryos,  Csf1rko  rats are almost indistinguishable macroscopically and histologically from littermates throughout embryonic development and at birth [ 16 ]. However, after birth the  Csf1rko  pups fail to thrive. The  Csf1rko  impacts somatic growth and organ development and limits the lifespan to 8–12 weeks [ 15 , 17 ]. Remarkably, the  Csf1rko  phenotype in rats can be reversed by intraperitoneal adoptive transfer of wild-type bone marrow cells (BMT) at weaning (3 weeks) without conditioning. Repopulation of resident tissue macrophage populations with donor-derived cells leads to restoration of somatic growth, long-term survival and even male and female fertility [ 17 , 18 ].
L18:These observations indicate that the CSF1R-dependent postnatal expansion of tissue-resident macrophages is crucial to development. We previously inferred the specific expression profiles of rat microglia and brain macrophages, liver macrophages (Kupffer cells) and marginal zone macrophages of the spleen by comparing tissue expression profiles from wild-type and macrophage-deficient  Csf1rko  rats [ 15 , 17 , 19 ]. In the current study we extend transcriptomic profiling of juvenile wild-type and  Csf1rko  rats to all major organs. The analysis enables the extraction of a generic macrophage transcriptomic signature including C1Q and other collectins as well as tissue-specific CSF1R-dependent signatures that are restored by BMT. We use these data to identify tissue-specific impacts of macrophage deficiency and evidence of functional redundancy and to develop a holistic model of the molecular basis of failure-to-thrive in macrophage-deficient animals. These studies have implications for understanding and treating human CSF1R deficiency and also highlight the potential of CSF1 as a treatment to promote innate immune development in premature or low birth weight infants.
L20:A transcriptomic atlas of juvenile wild-type and  Csf1rko  Dark Agouti rats reveals a core CSF1R-dependent signature
L21:To provide a framework for understanding the effect of macrophage deficiency in  Csf1rko  rats and to establish a baseline for the phenotypic rescue by BMT, we isolated mRNA from lung, heart, multiple regions of intestine, kidney, lymph nodes, thymus, adipose, skeletal muscle and diaphragm, testis, ovary and adrenals of 3 week old male and female WT and  Csf1rko  rats, generated deep total RNA-seq data and quantified gene expression. Our analysis includes re-mapping of the previous datasets generated from pituitary and multiple brain regions [ 19 ] and from liver [ 17 ]. This dataset can be viewed interactively at  https://github.com/dylancartercusack/RNA-Seq-Web-App .
L22:Fig 1A  shows a network graph for the sample-to-sample relationships of non-lymphoid tissues. Highlighting the quality of the replicates, samples from each tissue cluster closely with each other. Consistent with previous analysis [ 17 ] the liver of juvenile  Csf1rko  rats is clearly distinguished from WT whereas there is little distinction between brain regions based upon genotype [ 19 ]. Amongst all of the other tissues profiled, only in pituitary was the overall transcriptomic profiles sufficiently divergent to separate  Csf1rko  and wild-type. We then performed a network analysis of the non-lymphoid tissues using Graphia [ 20 ]. By contrast to the widely-used weighted gene correlation analysis (WGCNA) [ 21 ], Graphia generates a true correlation graph from which coexpression modules are defined using the Markov clustering (MCL) algorithm. Outcomes are similar to WGCNA, but the co-expression modules are biologically enriched compared to those defined by WGCNA [ 20 ].
L23:Fig 1 The effect of the  Csf1rko  on tissue-specific gene expression in juvenile rats. Networks derived from tissue RNA – Seq data from 3-wk WT and  Csf1rko  rats. Visualisations were created in BioLayout.  (A)  Sample-to-sample network graph created in Biolayout using a Pearson correlation coefficient threshold of r > 0.8. Individual samples (nodes) are connected by edges (lines) that reflect the corresponding r value. Nodes are coloured by organ, with a darker shade for WT and a lighter shade for  Csf1rko .  (B)  Gene-to-gene network graph was created in Biolayout for all non-lymphoid tissues; correlation coefficient threshold of r > 0.8 and an MCL inflation value of 1.3. Nodes represent genes and nodes with similar expression patterns (clusters) are shown in the same colour.  (C)  Example cluster expression plots showing the average expression of genes contained in each cluster. Each column shows the tissue indicated on the X axis for a different animal. The Y axis shows the average expression of genes in the sample in gene-level transcripts per million (TPM).
L24:Fig 1B  shows the network graph for gene-to-gene relationships across the non-lymphoid tissue dataset. Co-expression modules generated with an r value of ≥ 0.8 and MCL inflation value (determining granularity of the clusters) of 1.3 are shown in  S1 Table  with average expression profiles for each cluster containing >5 genes. The analysis complements and greatly extends a previous rat RNA-seq body map in the Fischer 344 background that included 2 week old juvenile animals [ 22 ] which were included in a larger meta-analysis [ 23 ]. As expected, we identified co-expressed clusters of genes that are either tissue-specific (examples shown in  Fig 1C ) or process/pathway specific and in each case we are able to determine that the  Csf1rko  has no significant effect on the average expression of genes in each cluster. The obvious exception was Cluster 21, which contains  Csf1r  and the set of genes that is CSF1R-dependent in every non-lymphoid organ. The average expression of this cluster and the gene list is shown in  Fig 2A . By contrast to the mouse, where MHCII genes define subsets of tissue macrophages [ 24 ], and in common with humans, rat macrophages aside from microglia express high levels of MHCII genes (e.g.,  RT1-DMa, Cd74  and the transcription factor  Ciita ). These genes form a small cluster, Cluster 52. The average profile shows that the genes in Cluster 52 are CSF1R-dependent to varying degrees in every non-lymphoid tissue ( Fig 2B ).
L25:Fig 2 Identification of  Csf1r  co-expressions cluster. S1 Table  identifies clusters of genes that share co-expression across non-lymphoid tissues of 3 week old WT and  Csf1rko  based upon gene-to-gene pair-wise correlation analysis in Graphia. The analysis revealed two clusters that distinguish WT and  Csf1rko  tissues. The Figure shows the average expression of  (A)  cluster 21 – Macrophages (55 genes) and  (B)  cluster 52 – MHCII related genes (14 genes). Each column shows the tissue indicated on the X axis for a different animal. The Y axis shows the average expression of genes in the sample in gene-level transcripts per million (TPM). The list of genes contained in each cluster is shown in the top right of each plot.
L27:The core cluster of universal CSF1R-dependent genes (Cluster 21) excludes genes affected by the  Csf1rko  in only one or limited tissues. For example, Kupffer cell (KC) markers  Clec4f, Vsig4  and  Cd5l  [ 25 ] are within the liver-specific cluster. They were reduced by 60-70% in the juvenile  Csf1rko  liver, consistent with persistence of a CSF1R-independent population that nevertheless retains KC identity [ 17 ]. Network analysis allows tissue RNA-seq data to be deconvoluted to infer the relative abundance of specific cell types based upon cell type-specific markers [ 24 ]. Analysis of the profiles of six brain regions comparing juvenile wild-type and  Csf1rko  revealed a microglia-specific expression signature and the lack of impact of microglia deficiency on region-specific gene expression [ 19 ]. Such an analysis is expedited by having multiple replicates, which vary by chance in their relative cellular composition, as well as different conditions that alter abundance of specific cell types. To further dissect the effect of macrophage deficiency on postnatal organ development, we performed network analysis on the individual tissue RNA-seq data sets. In the sections below cluster numbers refer to the tissue specific network analyses.
L29:Csf1rko  rats require euthanasia by around 8 weeks of age, often due to progressive breathing difficulties. Shibata  et al.  [ 26 ] described progressive emphysematous changes in the lung in  Csf1 op/op  mice and focussed on delayed development of alveolar macrophages (AM) as the underlying mechanism. Examination of  Csf1rko  rat lungs at 3 weeks of age revealed destruction of alveolar walls, reduced alveolar numbers and expansion of the terminal airways in  Csf1rko  lung compared to control ( S1 Fig ), similar to the reported phenotype in older  Csf1 op/op  mice. The mouse lung contains multiple mononuclear phagocyte populations defined as recruited monocytes, conventional dendritic cells, bronchoalveolar macrophages and interstitial macrophages based upon surface markers [ 27 ]. There have been many studies aimed at defining subpopulations of lung interstitial macrophages in mice, but the analyses are confounded by selective recovery and activation of the cells during tissue disaggregation [ 28 ]. In mice, the major growth factor required for maintenance of bronchoalveolar macrophages is CSF2 (granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor). In our dataset,  Csf2  mRNA expression was almost completely lung-specific, but both  Csf1  and  Il34  mRNA were also highly-expressed in the lung, perhaps explaining a more penetrant lung phenotype in the  Csf1rko  than in CSF1-deficient ( Csf1 tl/tl ) rats [ 29 ]. Cluster analysis revealed only minor impacts of the  Csf1rko  on lung development at 3 weeks of age, despite the apparent pathology ( S2 Table ). Abundantly expressed markers of alveolar type 1 (AT1) cells (e.g.,  Ager, PdpnI ) and type 2 (AT2) cells ( Sftpa1, Sftpc, Lyz2 ) [ 30 ] were not affected by  Csf1rko.  Consistent with previous analysis of Ki67 staining [ 17 ],  Cluster 5,  which contained genes reduced in  Csf1rko  lung included numerous cell-cycle related genes, whereas there was a reciprocal small increase in ribosomal/protein synthesis genes ( Cluster 7 ). The set of 73 genes correlated with  Csf1r  ( Cluster 11 ) identified macrophage-associated genes that were depleted to different extents in the  Csf1rko  lung.  Cluster 28  adds a further 21 genes with a similar pattern. Highly depleted genes including  Adgre1, C1qa/b/c, Cd4, Cd163, Cd300le, Clec4a, Clec10a, Cx3cr1, Folr2, Hpgds, Ltc4s, Pld4  and  Sh2d6  were reduced by 80% or more. Each of these genes is expressed at very low levels in isolated rat alveolar macrophages [ 31 ] supporting the conclusion that they represent an interstitial macrophage signature.  Fig 3A  shows examples of the downregulation of these selected genes in  Csf1rko  lung.
L30:Fig 3 Selective loss of interstitial macrophages in the lung of juvenile  Csf1rko  rats. (A – B) Expression in transcripts per million (TPM) for selected genes from RNA-Seq data of 3wk WT and  Csf1rko  lungs (n = 8 WT; 8  Csf1rko ). Graphs show the mean ± SD. (C) Gene set enrichment plot created using the C8 (cell type signature) gene set collection from the Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). NES – Normalised Enrichment Score; FDR – False Discovery Rate. A negative enrichment score indicates an enrichment in the  Csf1rko  animals. (D) Representative flow cytometry plots from disaggregated whole lung showing differential expression of CD172 and CD11bc. (E) Representative images showing immunohistochemical localization of CD163 (brown) in 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  lungs. * indicates primary airway bronchiole. ▲ indicates examples of CD163 +  macrophages. Original magnification: 40X. Scale bar: 50μm. *, P < 0.05; **, P < 0.01; ***, P < 0.001; ****, P < 0.0001.
L31:The effect of the  Csf1rko  on detection of other myeloid-expressed genes in lung was variable. A cluster of highly-expressed neutrophil-specific genes ( Cluster 12 ), including  Camp, Mmp8, Mmp9, Ngp ,  S100A8  and  S100A9,  showed increased expression in the  Csf1rko  animals. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) confirmed this elevation in neutrophil related genes ( Fig 3C ). This may be associated with the granulocytosis discussed further below but may also relate to increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines  Il1b  and  Cxcl1,  and the emphysema-like pathology that develops in these animals. The dendritic cell growth factor gene  Flt3lg  is highly-expressed in the juvenile rat lung and markers associated with cDC1 (type 1 classical dendritic cells), including  Batf3, Ccr7, Clec9a, Flt3, Itgae  and  Xcr1  [ 24 ] were not significantly affected by the  Csf1rko  ( Fig 3B ). Similarly, rat alveolar macrophage markers defined previously [ 31 ], including  Cd2, Clec4d, Clec7a, Csf2ra/b, Fabp4/5, Mcoln3, Mrc1, Pparg  and  Siglec5  were unaffected ( Fig 3B ), consistent with lack of effect of the  Csf1rko  on this population [ 17 ]. Other myeloid-associated genes, including  Fcgr1a, Irf8, Itgam, Siglec1, Spi1  and class II MHC ( RT1-DMb  etc), were reduced to varying extents. Many of these genes are likely shared by multiple macrophage, DC and granulocyte populations retained or expanded in mutant lung which may obscure the effect of the loss of CSF1R-dependent macrophages on total tissue gene expression.
L32:To confirm the existence of a CSF1R-dependent interstitial macrophage population, we examined flow cytometry profiles of disaggregated lungs from wild-type and  Csf1ko  rats.  Fig 3D  identifies a major population of CSF1R-dependent cells, distinct from AM, defined by relative expression of CD11b/c and CD172a. There was also a substantial increase in CD11b/c-Hi granulocytes, consistent with the RNA-seq data. The infiltration of these cells, which also express CD172a, further indicates why genes encoding these markers ( Itgam, Itgax, Sirpa ) and other myeloid-specific genes are not reduced in the bulk RNA-seq data.
L33:One constraint on study of the rat as a model is the limited availability of well-defined antibodies suitable for immunohistochemistry [ 32 ]. One widely studied marker is the haptoglobin receptor, CD163. CD163 was detected on a subset of macrophages in the rat embryo, notably associated with erythroblastic islands in the liver, and expression was abolished in  Csf1rko  embryos [ 16 ].  Cd163  mRNA was detected in WT and absent in  Csf1rko  lung. Consistent with the original study localising this marker in rat lung [ 33 ], CD163 was detected exclusively on macrophage-like cells (red arrows) within connective tissue surrounding the major airways (red asterisks) and blood vessels and was undetectable in  Csf1rko  lung ( Fig 3E ).
L35:Lymphoid tissues were omitted from the global tissue clustering analysis because their unique expression profiles overpowered the differences observed in other organs. Although CSF1 has been implicated as a local trophic factor for macrophages in the splenic red pulp in mice [ 34 ], previous analysis of the spleen of adult  Csf1rko  rats revealed only partial reduction in this population and associated genes involved in red cell clearance and iron metabolism [ 15 ]. By contrast, localisation of the marginal zone metallophilic macrophage marker, CD169 ( Siglec1 ), alongside microarray profiling, indicated the selective loss of this population. The expression data also inferred depletion of the separate marginal zone macrophage population defined by the markers  Cd209  and  Cd209b  [ 15 ] encoding lectin-like receptors DC-SIGN and SIGNR1 respectively. Like the structurally-related MRC1 (CD206), CD209 receptors bind mannose-containing microbial structures [ 35 ] and like CD206, CD209B is expressed in the liver by sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSEC) as well as macrophages [ 36 ]. Immunohistochemical localisation using an antibody against CD209B confirmed the expression of this protein in LSEC in rat liver ( S2A Fig ). In the rat spleen, as in mouse [ 37 ], CD209B was localised to a stellate macrophage-like population in the marginal zone. Consistent with previous expression profiling of the spleen indicating complete loss of  Cd209b  mRNA [ 15 ], the protein was undetectable in the  Csf1rko  spleen ( Fig 4A ).
L36:Fig 4 Selective loss of macrophage subpopulations in lymphoid tissue of  Csf1rko  rats. (A) Representative images showing immunohistochemical localization of CD209B (brown) in 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes (mLN) and thymus. Original magnification: 40X. Scale bar for main images: 100μm. Dashed boxes indicate the zoomed in region shown beside the main image. Annotations – WP: white pulp, MZ: marginal zone, RP: red pulp. (B) Volcano plot showing differential expression (DE) between 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  lymph nodes (n = 12 WT; 11  Csf1rko ). DE was calculated using DESeq2, and log fold changes (logFC) were shrunk using lfcShrink. Positive logFC indicates an increase in expression in  Csf1rko  animals, while negative logFC indicates a decrease in expression in  Csf1rko  animals. (C) Expression profiles in gene-level transcripts per million (TPM) for selected genes from RNA-Seq data of 3wk WT and  Csf1rko  thymus (n = 3 WT; 3  Csf1rko ). Graphs show the mean ± SD. *, P < 0.05; **, P < 0.01; ***, P < 0.001; ****, P < 0.0001.
L37:To extend the analysis of spleen, we compared profiles of lymph nodes and thymus from juvenile wildtype and  Csf1rko  rats and conducted network analysis on them together. Co-expressed gene clusters across these tissues are shown in  S3 Table . Two of the largest clusters were tissue-specific,  Cluster 1  was enriched in thymus and contains T cell-specific genes (e.g.,  Cd3 ) and genes involved in proliferation and differentiation and  Cluster 3  contains B cell-specific genes (e.g.,  Cd19 ). Despite the relative depletion of circulating B cells, and early thymic involution in  Csf1rko  rats, neither cluster was affected by the  Csf1rko. 
L38: Clusters 12  and  98  contained  Csf1r  and 117 other genes that were detected at higher levels in LN than thymus and which were CSF1R-dependent.  Fig 4B  highlights the regulation of numerous endocytic pattern recognition receptors of multiple classes. The products of these genes contribute the role of LN macrophages in sentinel function and antigen capture which is considered in more detail in the discussion. Many of the genes were only partly CSF1R-dependent, presumably reflecting the residual mononuclear phagocyte populations detected by IBA1 ( Aif1  gene) staining ( S2B Fig ), especially within T cell areas [ 18 ]. Amongst the genes detected in LN, as in the spleen,  Cd209b  was highly-expressed and undetectable in  Csf1rko.  In mouse LN, CD209B was detected on a population of medullary sinus macrophages [ 37 ]. Similarly, we detected abundant CD209B immunoreactivity in the medullary and subcapsular sinuses that was absent in the  Csf1rko  LN ( Fig 4A ).
L39:The thymus contains a population of macrophages involved in phagocytosis of apoptotic thymocytes. In mouse, Zhou  et al.  [ 38 ] defined two thymic macrophage populations based upon expression of  Timd4  and  Cx3cr1.  Analysis of total RNA-seq data in the thymus is complicated by the early onset of involution in the  Csf1rko.  In some animals the thymus was already almost completely absent at 3 weeks of age.  Fig 4C  highlights up and down-regulated genes comparing WT and  Csf1rko.  Aside from  Cd209 ,  Cd209b  and  Cd209f  which were absolutely CSF1R-dependent, as noted in splenic red pulp [ 15 ] and LN, other macrophage-associated genes (e.g.,  Aif1,C1qa/b/c, Folr2, Mrc1 ) were reduced to varying degrees suggesting the presence of a CSF1R-independent macrophage population, as reflected by IBA1 staining ( S2B Fig ). By contrast to the profile reported for isolated mouse thymic macrophages [ 38 ],  Cx3cr1 ,  Timd4  and the transcription factor  Spic  were detected in rat thymus but were not CSF1R-dependent ( Fig 4C ).
L40:Considering the thymus in isolation, there is a subset of macrophage-expressed genes, including  Cx3r1, Sirpa  and transcription factors  Spi1  and  Mafb , that was increased in  Csf1rko  thymus, likely indicating an expansion of active CSF1R-independent phagocytes involved in involution. The set of up-regulated genes in the  Csf1rko  thymus ( Cluster 6 ) includes  Foxn1 , the regulator of thymic epithelial differentiation [ 39 ] and cytokeratins (e.g.,  Krt5 ) perhaps indicating a feedback mechanism to mitigate involution. This may explain the 2-fold increased detection of  Ciita, Cd74  and class II MHC genes which are expressed by thymic epithelium. Given the absolute loss of  Cd209b  mRNA we stained thymus ( Fig 4A ) and identified a novel population of CD209B +  macrophages mainly located in the cortex and corticomedullary junction (but not present in the medulla) which were absent in the  Csf1rko.
L43:As in the lung, IBA1 staining indicated that the  Csf1rko  ileum contained some residual lamina propria mononuclear phagocytes [ 17 ]. The expression profiles suggest these cells are monocytes, since markers such as  Cd14, Cxcr4,  and  Nod2  were relatively unaffected in the  Csf1rko . By contrast to mouse, where it is considered a functional marker of lamina propria macrophages [ 48 ],  Cx3cr1  was not highly-expressed in the rat intestine. Amongst other intestinal macrophage markers identified in mouse [ 41 , 42 ],  Timd4  was not reproducibly detectable and  Lyve1  was abundant but unaffected by the  Csf1rko. 
L44: Cluster 23  identified the relatively small set of 44 genes with similar profiles to  Csf1r  across the three gut regions ( Fig 5A ). Within this cluster, the genes follow slightly different patterns of expression. The most globally CSF1R-dependent genes including  Adgre1, C1qa/b/c, Cd68, Cd163, Clec10a, Fcgr1a  and  Msr1  were detected at similar levels in all three regions and were completely lost in the  Csf1rko  ( Fig 5B ). However, several genes (e.g.,  Aif1 ,  Cd68, class II MHC, Tyrobp ) were depleted to a greater extent in colon and duodenum compared to ileum ( Fig 5C ). This pattern suggests that ileum, like lung, contains a CSF1R-independent mononuclear phagocyte population with a distinct expression profile. This may include classical dendritic cells.  Flt3lg  mRNA and markers of type 1 classical dendritic cells (cDC1) identified in the mouse ([ 24 ];  Clec9a, Flt3, Xcr1 ) were increased in the ileum in the  Csf1rko  ( Fig 5D ). Tabs B-D in  S4 Table  contain the profiles of myeloid-specific genes and other genes of interest from each region.  Siglec1,  which defines a crypt-associated macrophage population in mice [ 43 ] was also detected and CSF1R-dependent. Across all three regions there were few genes that would constitute a CSF1R-dependent gut-specific macrophage signature. One candidate is  Adgrg5,  encoding an adhesion G protein-coupled receptor (GPR114) that was relatively enriched in intestine and was CSF1R-dependent. Given the rapid turnover of intestinal macrophages from monocytes [ 41 , 42 ], the CSF1R-dependent expression of the chemokine receptor,  Ccr1 , in all gut regions is likely to reflect a function in recruitment.
L45:Fig 5 The effect of the  Csf1rko  on gene expression and neuronal development in the gut. Gene expression profiles of colon, ileum and duodenum from WT and  Csf1rko  rats were clustered using Graphia ( S4 Table ).  (A)  The profile of Cluster 23 containing 44 genes. Y-axis shows the average expression of transcripts in the cluster (TPM); individual columns are biological replicates of the WT and  Csf1rko  tissues as indicated . (B–D)  Expression profiles in transcripts per million (TPM) for selected genes from RNA-Seq data of 3wk WT and  Csf1rko  colon, ileum and duodenum (n = 4-5/group). Graphs show the mean ± SD.  (B) 
L46: Csf1r -dependent genes common to all three tissues.  (C) 
L47: Csf1r -dependent genes depleted to a greater extent in colon and duodenum compared to ileum.  (D)  DC-associated genes increased in the  Csf1rko  ileum.  (E)  Representative images showing immunohistochemical localization of peripherin (brown), a marker of enteric neurons, and quantification of this staining in 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  ileum and colon. MP: myenteric plexus, SP: submucosal plexus. Original magnification: 40X. Scale bar: 100μm. The relative positive stain area for peripherin as a proportion of the muscularis and submucosal layer was determined by quantitative image analysis of an entire Swiss roll (n = 4 WT; 5  Csf1rko  biological replicates). Graphs show the mean ± SD. *, P < 0.05; **, P < 0.01; ***, P < 0.001; ****, P < 0.0001.
L48:Intestinal macrophages are proposed as a constitutive source of IL10 [ 46 ] although there is contrary evidence from conditional KO in mice [ 49 ].  Il10  mRNA was barely detected in rat intestine and not significantly altered in  Csf1rko . A recent study in mice claimed that C1Q-expressing macrophages were located specifically in the intestinal submucosal and myenteric plexuses and associated with enteric neurons [ 50 ]. This is not consistent with the high level expression of C1Q subunits and the absolute CSF1R-dependence we observed in the rat.
L49:Amongst the functions attributed to macrophages, we found no evidence to support selective effects of the  Csf1rko  on epithelial proliferation ( Cluster 2 ) or region-specific differentiation ( Clusters 1, 5, 11 ). By contrast to previous analysis of  Csf1rko  mice [ 51 ] the relative abundance of major cell types defined by marker genes (e.g.,  Chga , neuroendocrine cells;  Muc2/3/13 , goblet cells;  Lgr5  stem cells) was not significantly altered in any of the three regions. We were interested specifically in the proposed role of macrophages in the pruning of peripheral nerves during intestinal nervous system development [ 44 , 45 , 50 ] in view of evidence that similar functions attributed to microglia in the brain appear to be redundant [ 19 ].  Cluster 8  contained multiple markers of enteric neurons, including  Ngfr,  neurofilament heavy and light chains, and the intermediate filament protein peripherin ( Prph ) that were significantly increased in both ileum and colon. To assess the relationship to enteric neuronal development, sections of ileum and colon were stained for peripherin, which is expressed specifically within nerves of the peripheral nervous system.  Fig 5E  shows an increase in the size of neuronal tracts running throughout the myenteric and submucosal plexus in both tissues of the  Csf1rko . This supports the suggestion that macrophages are involved in the refinement of intestinal neurons during early postnatal development [ 45 ], and their absence in  Csf1rko  animals allows the neurons to grow unchecked.
L51:Cluster 4  in the intestine analysis contained the expression signature of smooth muscle (e.g.,  Lmod1 ,  Myl9 ,  Actg2 ,  Dmpk ,  Acta2 ,  Flna ) (Tab A in  S4 Table ). The contribution of this cluster varied between samples irrespective of genotype, suggesting that the lack of muscularis macrophages does not prevent normal smooth muscle development. In mouse skeletal muscle, muscle fibre number is determined at birth and postnatal growth occurs mainly by hypertrophy but in rats both hyperplasia and hypertrophy contribute [ 52 ]. Reflecting the difference in somatic growth, the skeletal muscles of  Csf1rko  pups are smaller than WT, and the average fibre diameter is 30-40% reduced [ 17 ]. We compared gene expression in diaphragm, tibialis anterior (TA), quadriceps and heart. Co-expression clusters are shown in Tab A in  S5 Table . Three large clusters are associated with the  Csf1r  genotype and are consistent with development delay in the  Csf1rko.  These are highlighted in  Fig 6A-C.  The largest,  Cluster 1 , grouped 1572 genes that are enriched in all three skeletal muscles relative to heart and expressed more highly in the  Csf1rko  ( Fig 6A ). This cluster includes the major fetal growth factor,  Igf2.  Gene ontology (GO) term annotation revealed strong enrichment for protein synthesis in this cluster. We interpret this to indicate ongoing hypertrophy in the  Csf1rko  that has declined in the WT.  Cluster 4  had a similar profile but was more skeletal muscle-specific, containing multiple myogenic transcription factors, including  Myod1 , a signature of satellite cells ( Fig 6B ) [ 53 ]. This cluster shared increased detection in the  Csf1rko  indicating ongoing generation of myonuclei. Finally,  Cluster 5 , also skeletal muscle-specific, was reduced in the  Csf1rko , and GO term annotation showed enrichment of genes involved in mature muscle function including many of the enzymes of glycolysis ( Fig 6C ). The entire GO term analysis for these 3 clusters can be found in Tabs B-D in  S5 Table . By contrast, genes in  Cluster 2,  strongly enriched in the heart, and genes encoding enzymes of oxidative phosphorylation ( Cluster 14 ) were unaffected in  Csf1rko  animals.  Cluster 19  contained 51 macrophage-specific genes that, like  Csf1r , were almost undetectable in  Csf1rko  muscle. The larger CSF1R-dependent  Cluster 9  contained additional myeloid genes (e.g.,  Laptm5, Spi1, Spn, Tyrobp ) as well as class II MHC genes and NK cell receptors that were expressed more highly in heart relative to skeletal muscle.
L52:Fig 6 The effect of the  Csf1rko  on muscle development. Gene expression profiles of heart, diaphragm, quadriceps and tibialis from WT and  Csf1rko  rats were clustered using Graphia ( S5 Table ). (A-D) The profiles of Clusters (A) 1(B) 4(C) 5 and (D) 8 from Tab A in  S5 Table . Y-axis shows the average expression of transcripts in the cluster (TPM); individual columns are biological replicates of the WT and  Csf1rko  tissues as indicated. Under each expression plot is a table showing (1) key genes contained within each cluster and (2) examples of gene ontology (GO) biological processes that are enriched in the genes contained within each cluster. GO Size: the number of genes contained in each gene ontology; No. of matches: the number of genes from the gene ontology which are found in each respective cluster; expected no. the expected number of matches in a random background sample.
L53:Postnatal innervation in rat muscle proceeds through a stage of polyneuronal innervation. By the end of the second week of life, this resolves to a single motor neuron axon for each muscle fibre [ 54 ]. Peripheral neuronal markers that were increased in the intestine (e.g.,  Prph ) and acetyl cholinesterase ( Ache ), a marker of neuromuscular junctions, were not affected in the  Csf1rko . The absence of microglia in a mouse hypomorphic  Csf1r  mutation was associated with hypermyelination of axons in the central nervous system [ 55 ]. In the periphery, axon myelination is mediated by Schwann cells. Schwann cell maturation and peripheral myelination in rodents occurs in the immediate postnatal period and is largely complete by the time of weaning [ 56 – 58 ].  Cluster 8  contains transcripts encoding myelin-associated genes, key transcriptional regulators (e.g.,  Sox 10 ) and markers of immature Schwann cells [ 56 – 58 ];  Fig 6D  shows the cluster co-expression plot along with key examples of these markers which are enriched 2-3 fold in the  Csf1rko  muscle. The literature on macrophage-Schwann cell interaction is focussed on remyelination following injury [ 59 ]. This pattern suggests a role for macrophages in feedback control of myelination in development.
L54:The diaphragm was of particular interest because of the respiratory phenotype in the  Csf1rko  rats and the loss of circulating IGF1 [ 17 ].  Igf1r  knockout mice had compromised development of the diaphragm, leading to lethal neonatal respiratory distress [ 60 ]. As in other skeletal muscle,  Igf1  was unaffected by macrophage deficiency and  Igf2  was highly-expressed and further increased in the  Csf1rko . Macroscopic view of the diaphragm in 3 week old rats indicated increased transparency and thinning of the connective tissue of the central tendon, which may indicate underdevelopment or degeneration. There was also inconsistent thinning of the diaphragmatic musculature, which showed a trend in severity with the clinical dyspnoea observed. Consistent with the dysplasia or degeneration of this structure, a unique feature of the diaphragm expression profile was the reduced detection of multiple collagen genes in the  Csf1rko  animals as shown in the gene set enrichment analysis ( S3B Fig ). Significant haemorrhage was also observed in both the muscular diaphragm and central tendon of 3-week-old  Csf1rko  rats ( S3A Fig ), which likely contributes to the respiratory phenotype. This is likely related to the increased rigidity of the rib cage in the  Csf1rko  animals, leading to a marked increase in inspiratory pressure, ultimately causing the observed diaphragmatic haemorrhage.
L56:The initial description of the juvenile  Csf1rko  kidney phenotype noted the relative hypoplasia of the medulla [ 17 ]. Consistent with the macroscopic view, cluster analysis revealed increased detection of genes associated with glomeruli and proximal tubules ( Clusters 1  and  11 ) and decreased detection of medullary genes ( Cluster 4 ) in  Csf1rko  rats ( Fig 7A  and Tab A in  S6 Table ). The number of glomeruli was also quantified histologically and was significantly increased in the  Csf1rko  animals ( Fig 7B ). The number of glomeruli and so-called nephron endowment is determined during embryonic development [ 61 ]. The apparent enrichment in glomeruli in  Csf1rko  can be attributed in large measure to the small size of the kidneys, which are proportional to body weight [ 17 ]. By comparison to other tissues, the cluster containing  Csf1r  in kidney data is larger ( Cluster 5;  166 genes), likely due to greater sensitivity given the complete loss of IBA1-positive cells in this organ [ 17 ].
L57:Fig 7 The effect of the  Csf1rko  on development of the kidney and adrenal gland. (A) The profiles of Clusters 1, 11 and 4 from Tab A in  S6 Table . Y-axis shows the average expression of transcripts in the cluster (TPM); individual columns are biological replicates of the WT and  Csf1rko  tissues as indicated. (B) Quantification of the number of glomeruli contained in the kidney cortex. Each dot represents 1 biological replicate (n= 4 WT; 4  Csf1rko ); 5 representative areas were sampled and averaged together for each biological replicate. (C) Calcium concentration (in mmole/L) in serum from 3 week male and female WT and  Csf1rko  rats (n = 12 WT; 10  Csf1rko ). (D) Expression profiles in transcripts per million (TPM) for selected genes from RNA-Seq data (Tab A in  S6 Table ) of 3wk WT and  Csf1rko  kidney (n = 7 WT; 8  Csf1rko ). Graphs show the mean ± SD. (E) Representative H&E and Picric Sirius Red images from 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  adrenal glands. Original magnification: 40X. Left image shows a H&E overview of the entire adrenal gland; Scale bar: 300μm. Top right image shows a zoomed in H&E region containing all layers of the adrenal gland (M: medulla, zR: zona reticularis, zF: zona fasciculata, zG: zona glomerulosa); Scale bar: 100μm. Bottom right image shows Picric Sirius Red staining of the same region of adrenal capsule and zona glomerulosa as the image above; Scale bar: 100μm. (F) qRT – PCR analysis of 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  adrenal glands (n = 9 WT; 9  Csf1rko ). Graphs show the mean ± SD. Graphs show the mean ± SD. *, P < 0.05; **, P < 0.01; ***, P < 0.001; ****, P < 0.0001.
L58:The expression profile of the  Csf1rko  kidney strongly indicates a response to calcium dyshomeostasis and actions of parathyroid hormone (PTH), likely as a response to the loss of osteoclasts in the bone which release calcium into circulation [ 17 , 62 ]. Calcium levels were measured in the serum which confirmed a small but significant decrease in serum calcium ( Fig 7C ).  Fig 7D  shows the expression profiles of selected genes in the kidney which are responsible for increasing the reabsorption of calcium in response to this dyshomeostasis. One of the most over-expressed genes in the  Csf1rko  kidney is  Cyp27B1,  encoding the limiting enzyme of vitamin D3 metabolism, 25-hydroxyvitamin D-3 alpha hydroxylase. Vitamin D produced in the kidney acts on the gut where it is the major stimulator of active calcium absorption [ 63 ]. PTH responsive calcium channels, TRPV5 and TRPV6 [ 64 , 65 ], were also increased in kidney. The highly-expressed  Adh6  gene, further increased 3-fold in the  Csf1rko , has been associated with the regulation of vitamin D3 in humans [ 66 ]. We speculate that other relatively abundant genes up-regulated in  Csf1rko  kidney (e.g.,  Creb3l3, Cyp2e1, Pcsk9, Qrfpr, Tmem252 ) may also contribute to calcium homeostasis.
L59:The presence of a substantial macrophage population in the mouse adrenal gland was recognised with the first localisation of F4/80 [ 67 ]. Resident F4/80 +  macrophages were especially abundant in the zona glomerulosa, the site of mineralocorticoid production. Dolfi  et al.  [ 68 ] analysed their diversity in mice by single cell RNA-seq and described sex-specific impacts on the prevalence of a class II MHC +ve  subset. Fan  et al.  [ 69 ] provided evidence of their function in maintenance of vascular integrity and aldosterone production in adult mice. The histological pattern in the juvenile  Csf1rko  rat suggested an overall hypoplasia of the adrenal cortex compared to the medulla ( Fig 7E ). Disorganisation was also observed within the cortical layers of the  Csf1rko  rats, the primary difference being a relative hyperplasia of the zona glomerulosa ( Fig 7E ). Sirius Red staining confirmed that this hyperplasia was not caused by fibrosis. The striations in the zona fasciculata caused by parallel fenestrated capillaries which are normally present were absent in the  Csf1rko  animals but expression of  Vegfa  and endothelial markers (e.g.,  Pecam1, Cdh5, Pvlap ) was unaffected. Consistent with that view, genes in  Cluster 3,  containing the cortex specific steroidogenic acute regulatory protein ( Star ) and aldo-keto reductase family 1, member B1 ( Akr1b1 ) were under-represented in the adrenal transcriptome, while medulla-associated genes including dopamine beta-hydroxylase ( Dbh ) were over-represented ( Cluster 10 ) in the mutant rats, as confirmed by qRT-PCR ( Fig 7F ).  Cyp11b2,  encoding the limiting enzyme of aldosterone production, was reduced in females only. The expression of genes within  Cluster 3  was variable in wild-type males and females, possibly related to early gonadal maturity in some of the animals (see below). Greatly-reduced expression of  Ezh2 , encoding an upstream regulator of steroidogenic differentiation [ 70 ] in  Csf1rko  adrenal was confirmed by qRT-PCR ( Fig 7F ), but we did not observe reduced expression of key enzymes involved in steroid biosynthesis (e.g.,  Cyp11a1 ). As in the kidney, the  Csf1r  coexpression cluster ( Cluster 11 ; 107 genes), including class II MHC genes, contains genes that are almost completely absent in the  Csf1rko  adrenal.
L61:The pituitary is the second tissue, alongside liver, where there is a clear distinction in transcriptomic profile at weaning between WT and  Csf1rko  ( Fig 1A ). Our previous analysis compared gene expression in the pituitary in juvenile WT and  Csf1rko  rats [ 19 ]. In the present study network analysis was conducted on these pituitary samples. Consistent with the global difference evident in the sample matrix ( Fig 1A ),  Csf1r  was contained in a large cluster of genes ( Cluster 2 ) with a shared pattern of down-regulation in the  Csf1rko 
L63: S7 Table ). As in the liver [ 17 ], the  Csf1r -coexpression cluster includes  Pcna, Mki67  and is enriched for genes associated with cell cycle and growth (as determined by GO term annotation) indicating that postnatal growth of the pituitary is compromised in the  Csf1rko.  Reclustering at higher stringency (MCL inflation value of 3) separates a set of 161 genes more strictly coexpressed with  Csf1r  (Tab B in  S7 Table ). The set contains no pituitary-specific genes, nor any obvious regulators of cell growth. The pituitary produces multiple hormones that regulate somatic growth and gonadal development and fertility, and we observed changes in the relative expression of these key hormones [ 19 ]. Expression of prolactin ( Prl ) was reduced 3-4 fold in the  Csf1rko  in both sexes, and luteinising hormone ( Lhb ) and follicle-stimulating hormone ( Fshb ) were selectively reduced in males. These changes likely contribute to the lack of gonadal development in both sexes.
L64:The core set of macrophage-expressed transcripts detected in other tissues was also readily detected in WT testis, and almost undetectable in the  Csf1rko ; they mainly fall within  Cluster 6 (Tab C in 
L65: S7 Table ).  However, others, including  Adgre1  and  Aif1 , fall within a much larger cluster ( Cluster 2 ) that was selectively expressed in 3/5 WT males and is highly-enriched in genes associated with spermatogenesis. We infer that these three WT animals were more advanced in sexual maturation. Interestingly, this cluster includes the macrophage growth factor and CSF1R ligand,  Il34.  Similarly, in the ovary, the set of macrophage-related genes, also almost completely CSF1R-dependent, forms part of much larger cluster ( Cluster 5 ) of genes that are associated with ovarian development (Tab D in  S7 Table ).
L66:One of the more obvious macroscopic phenotypes in  Csf1rko  rats is a severe loss of visceral fat. This meant that we were only able to obtain sufficient tissue for mRNA isolation and profiling from 2 male and 1 female  Csf1rko  rats compared to 2 female and 3 male controls. The expression of adipocyte-specific genes ( Adig, Adipoq ) was variable in both control and  Csf1rko  rats and network analysis produced clusters that were specific to individual samples (Tab E in  S7 Table ). However, we identified a set of 200 genes that were consistently expressed across the 5 controls and reduced > 5-fold in  Csf1rko  adipose (Tab F in  S7 Table ). The CSF1R-dependent gene set includes two known regulators of mouse adipose development,  Il18  and  Pdgfc  [ 71 , 72 ] supporting the view that adipose hypoplasia is due at least in part to local macrophage depletion.
L68:We previously demonstrated that the severe phenotypes in  Csf1rko  rats can be reversed by bone marrow transfer (BMT) at weaning, which was associated with restoration of circulating IGF1 and all tissue macrophage populations [ 17 , 18 ]. Whole mount images in  S4 Fig  confirm the effective repopulation of these tissue macrophages following BM, including complete repopulation of adipose tissue which is restored to normal levels in BMT recipients.
L69:The three subunits of C1Q encoded by  C1qa, C1qb  and  C1qc  were highly-expressed in most tissues and absolutely CSF1R-dependent. Their expression in mice is believed to be largely restricted to macrophages, regulated by lineage specific transcription factors PU.1 (Spi1) and MAFB [ 73 , 74 ]. C1Q deficiency in  C1qa -/-  mice can be restored by BMT [ 75 ], a clinically important observation in view of the autoimmunity associated with C1Q deficiency. We used a recently-developed quantitative ELISA to measure circulating C1Q [ 76 ]. Consistent with the complete dependence on macrophages as the source, C1Q was undetectable in  Csf1rko  rat serum. Following BMT, C1Q was rapidly restored and reached WT levels within 2 weeks ( Fig 8A ).
L70:Fig 8 Phenotypic reversal and repopulation of tissue macrophages in the  Csf1rko  following WT bone marrow cell transfer (BMT). Csf1rko  rats received an intraperitoneal injection of WT bone marrow cells at 3 weeks of age. Measurement of C1Q levels in WT,  Csf1rko , and  Csf1rko  BMT recipient serum by quantitative sandwich ELISA. Each point represents data from a single animal.  (B)  Representative flow cytometry plots of disaggregated whole brains from WT and  Csf1rko  BMT recipients and barplot showing the Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI) of CD45 within the microglial population (n = 6 WT; 8  Csf1rko  + BMT. Ages range from 8-35 weeks). ( C–E ) Expression profiles in transcripts per million (TPM) for selected genes from RNA – Seq data of brains from WT and  Csf1rko  BMT recipients. Barplots show genes that showed  (C)  lower expression in BMT animals  (D)  higher expression in BMT animals or  (E)  similar expression in BMT animals vs WT animals. Primary data is in  S9 Table . Graphs show the mean ± SD.
L71:In the brain, the FACS profile of isolated microglia was clearly different between WT and BMT recipients. The absolute abundance of microglia was restored by BMT, as shown previously by IBA1 staining [ 17 ] and they were of donor origin ( Csf1r- mApple+). However, the cells isolated from BMT recipients had higher CD45 compared to controls ( Fig 8B ). We compared gene expression profiles in brains of WT and long term BMT (12 weeks) recipients. The expression data, network analysis and differential expression analysis are presented in Tabs A-C in  S8 Table . Consistent with FACS and immunohistochemical analysis,  Ptprc  (CD45) was higher,  Itgam  (CD11b) was lower and  Aif1  (IBA1) mRNA levels were identical in BMT compared to control brains. Other myeloid-associated genes were restored to different extents as summarised in  Table 1  and shown in  Fig 8C - E  . Homeostatic microglial genes such as  P2ry12  and  Tmem119  were restored to around 20% of WT ( Fig 8C ), whereas genes expressed by so-called damage-associated microglia [ 77 ] such as  Clec7a  were substantially over-expressed in the BMT brain ( Fig 8D ). Other macrophage markers such as  Adgre1, Aif1,  and  C1qa , and markers specific to border-associated macrophages (BAMs) including  Cd163  were restored to WT levels ( Fig 8E ). Notwithstanding the apparent presence in BMT recipients of a microglial phenotype associated with neuropathology, there was no evidence of pathology. Indeed, markers of stress/pathology that were elevated in 3 week old  Csf1rko  brains [ 19 ], including  Gfap, C4b, Rbm3  and  Mt1/2a,  were normalised in BMT recipients, perhaps suggesting that the damage-associated phenotype is involved in repair rather than injury.
L72:Table 1 Differential restoration of myeloid-associated genes in the brain of WT and BMT-rescued  Csf1rko  rats.
L73:The major CD172a+/CD11b+ resident peritoneal macrophage population is completely absent in  Csf1rko  rats, and the total cellular yield from peritoneal lavage is 1-2% of a WT rat [ 15 ]. In BMT recipients, the CD172 + /CD11b +  population was restored entirely from cells of donor ( Csf1r- mApple + ) origin [ 18 ]. To investigate peritoneal macrophage repopulation at a molecular level, we profiled peritoneal lavage cells from WT and  Csf1rko  BMT recipients. Tab A in  S9 Table  compares the profiles of the two populations and cluster analysis is shown in Tab B in  S9 Table . The core signature of the resident peritoneal macrophages was identical between the WT and BMT populations, including  C1qa/b/c , highly-expressed surface markers (e.g.,  Adgre1, Cd4, Cd81, Clec10a, Fcgr1a, Icam2, Itgam, Lgals9, Lyve1, Siglec5, Trem2 ) [ 24 , 78 , 79 ] and a complex transcription factor profile that includes  Bhlhe40, Cebpa/b/d/e, Gata6, Hif1a, Irf1/2/3/5/7/8/9, Klf2/4, Maf1, Mafb, Rara, Stat1/2/3/5a/5b/6, Spi1,  and  Tfec  (examples of these genes shown in  S5A Fig ) [ 79 – 81 ]. A small cluster of less abundant genes with reduced expression in the BMT, including  Cx3cr1,  may reflect the continued lack of non-classical monocytes following BMT. Lymphocyte markers( Cd19, Cd3 ) were also low but consistent between WT and  Csf1rko  BMT animals. We also detected a clear mast cell cluster containing mast cell proteases (e.g.,  Cma1  (chymase),  Cpa3, Mcpt1l1 ) and tryptases ( Tpsab1 ), along with  Csf1 . The rat peritoneal cavity was reported to contain a population of tissue resident mast cells as much as 25% of total lavage [ 82 ], although detection may vary due to the sensitivity of mast cells to degranulation. We also confirmed the presence of abundant toluidine blue positive cells in rat peritoneal lavage ( S6 Fig ). Together the data suggest BMT recipients establish a resident peritoneal macrophage population that is indistinguishable from WT, and proportionate to other resident populations, notably mast cells, which may be a significant source of CSF1.
L74:We also profiled the lung and liver of BMT recipients and age matched controls. In the lung, the signature of CSF1R-dependent macrophages found in the analysis of the 3 week WT and Csf1rko animals ( Fig 3A ) (e.g.  Adgre1, Cd163, C1qa, Folr2 ) was restored ( S5B Fig ) and there was no longer evidence of the neutrophilia (e.g.,  Mmp8/9, Ngp, S100a8/9 ) seen in juveniles (Tabs C and D in  S9 Table ). Similarly, in the liver, the relative expression of all CSF1R-dependent genes identified at 3 weeks of age, including Kupffer cell-specific genes (e.g.,  Cd5l, Cd163, Clec4f, Marco, Vsig4 ) and genes involved in lipid metabolism [ 17 ], was indistinguishable between controls and long term BMT recipients ( S5C Fig  and  Tabs E and F in 
L75: S9 Table ). qRT-PCR analysis of the adrenal glands of BMT recipients confirmed the restoration of  Csf1r  and  Ezh2  expression, along with restoration of the cortex specific genes ( Akr1b1, Star ) and medulla specific gene  Dbh  ( S5D Fig ).
L76:Our previous analysis of repopulation following BMT using the  Csf1r -mApple transgene as a marker revealed clusters of donor-derived cells in distant sites suggesting seeding by highly-proliferative progenitors [ 18 ]. CD209B provides a unique marker to assess local repopulation and specialisation in lymphoid tissue. Accordingly, we localised CD209B in spleen and LN at various times post BMT.  S7 Fig  shows complete repopulation of CD209B-positive macrophages. At earlier times we observed clusters of positive cells in both locations suggesting that local proliferative expansion and adaptation may precede migration to fill the vacant niche.
L78:The interaction between liver, pituitary and bone in Csf1r-dependent control of somatic growth
L79:Csf1rko  rats have a severe defect in postnatal somatic growth including the loss of the post-pubertal differential growth in males. In some respects, the phenotype resembles the postnatal growth defects associated with mutations in ligands and receptors in the growth hormone/insulin like growth factor axis (GH/IGF1) [ 83 , 84 ]. At least at the mRNA level,  Csf1rko  rats are not absolutely deficient in expression of growth hormone (GH) mRNA ( Gh1  gene) in pituitary and GH protein is detected in the circulation [ 17 ]. Prolactin (PRL;  Prl  gene), which was reduced by 70-80% in the pituitary in 3 week old  Csf1rko  rats, has also been implicated in control of postnatal liver growth in mice [ 85 ]. The prolactin receptor ( Prlr ) is highly-expressed in juvenile rat liver, with a significant female bias which was selectively abolished in the  Csf1rko  [ 17 ]. However, expression of the GH/PRL target gene  Socs2  in liver was not affected. Analysis of various liver-specific conditional mutations in mice indicates that the liver is the main source of circulating IGF1, but the loss of hepatic expression does not mimic a complete  Igf1  knockout [ 83 , 84 , 86 ]. In the rat  Csf1rko,  circulating IGF1 was profoundly reduced,  Igf1  and  Ghr  in liver were reduced by around 60%, and  Igfals , encoding an essential serum IGF1 binding protein, by 80% [ 17 ]. Although CSF1-stimulated macrophages express high levels of  Igf1  mRNA  in vitro,  the absence of any significant effect of the  Csf1rko  on  Igf1  mRNA in tissues other than pituitary in the current study indicates they are not a major extra-hepatic source in rats. The lack of hepatic IGF1 in transgenic mice with liver-specific conditional deletion may be compensated in part by up-regulation of IGF2 [ 87 ]. In keeping with that view,  Igf2  mRNA was increased significantly in  Csf1rko  muscle. Although IGF1 is proposed to exert feedback regulation on GH, there was no detectable compensatory increase in  Gh1  mRNA in the pituitary. Another feature of the liver transcriptome of the  Csf1rko  is the marked increase in expression of  Igfbp1  and  Igfbp2  [ 17 ]. Hepatic over-expression of these IGF binding proteins is sufficient to inhibit somatic growth [ 84 , 86 ]. IGFBP1 has been attributed a function as a liver-specific endocrine regulator of osteoclastogenesis [ 88 ].
L80:Although there is evidence for regulation of osteoclast (OCL) function by IGF1 [ 83 , 84 ] the complete loss of OCL and resident bone macrophages in the  Csf1rko  [ 62 ] and consequent osteopetrosis is specific to the mutation. Delayed skeletal calcification is evident in  Csf1rko  newborns [ 17 ]. Paradoxically, serum calcium and phosphate were reduced in the adult  Csf1rko  rats [ 15 ], which we confirmed in juveniles. This is likely a consequence of elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH). The primary function of PTH is to maintain calcium homeostasis [ 89 ]. In response to reduced serum calcium, PTH released by the parathyroid acts to induce RANKL in osteoblasts to promote osteoclastic bone resorption releasing calcium, which cannot occur in the OCL-deficient  Csf1rko  rats. We detected the signature of hyper-parathyroidism in the kidney, with 17-fold induction of  Cyp27B1,  the limiting enzyme for vitamin D synthesis, and the tubular calcium transporter  Trpv5 . Increased serum vitamin D3 has also been detected in osteopetrotic  Csf1 tl/tl  rats [ 90 ]. Similarly, in the intestine, we observed induction of the inducible calcium transporter,  Trpv6  [ 91 ]. Although kidney and bone are regarded as the main targets of PTH, the receptor  Pthr1 , was highly-expressed in juvenile rat liver. PTH activates cyclic AMP production in hepatocytes and cyclic AMP induces  Igfbp1  transcription [ 92 , 93 ]. Dysregulation of osteoblast differentiation and the lack of osteoclasts is also likely to alter the release and post-translation modification of the hormone-like mediator, osteocalcin [ 94 ]. Osteocalcin ( Bglap  gene) was reduced in bone and increased in serum in  Csf1 tl/tl  rats [ 90 ]. In summary, there is likely a two-way interaction between bone and liver that contributes to postnatal growth retardation in  Csf1rko  rats, linked to calcium dyshomeostasis.
L81:Deficiency in thyroid hormone, an essential regulator of liver maturation, skeletal maturation, postnatal somatic growth and lipid/cholesterol metabolism [ 95 – 97 ], is another likely contributor to impaired growth. The signature of thyroid hormone insufficiency is evident in the gene expression profile of the  Csf1rko  at weaning, with known thyroid hormone-responsive genes (e.g.,  Dio1, Fasn, Hmgcs1, SerpinA6, Srd5a1, Thrsp ) [ 98 ] amongst the most deficient. Thyroid hormone deficiency leads to hepatic steatosis [ 98 ] which is a feature of  Csf1rko  rats that is reversed by BMT [ 17 ]. Down-regulation of SERPINA6, the major serum glucocorticoid-binding protein, and genes for glucocorticoid metabolising enzymes ( Srd5a1, Hsd11b1 ) may contribute in turn to dysregulation of the stress response and sex-specific differences in development of the adrenal gland [ 99 , 100 ]. We observed increased expression of stress-responsive genes including metallothioneins ( Mt1, Mt2a ) [ 101 ] and  Rbm3  [ 102 ] in every organ studied including the brain.
L82:The  Csf1rko  rats are already severely growth retarded prior to weaning and the start of puberty. Puberty in rats is considered to begin at around 4-5 weeks [ 99 ]. In our cohort at 3 weeks, sexually dimorphic gene expression in the liver [ 99 ] was not yet detectable but based upon transcriptomic analysis a subset of the wild-type animals already showed evidence of the onset of sexual maturity in testis and ovary that was absent in any of the  Csf1rko.  The knockout animals fail to show a pubertal growth surge, and the male growth advantage is absent [ 17 ]. The  Csf1rko  animals remain IGF1-deficient well beyond the normal age of puberty [ 17 ]. Given the clear impacts on gonadotroph differentiation in the pituitary at 3 weeks, it is likely that the failure of gonadal development is at least partly extrinsic, rather than a direct consequence of the local depletion of macrophages in the gonads.
L83:Amongst all the tissues profiled, the liver has the clearest pattern of down-regulation of cell cycle-related transcripts indicating reduced hepatocyte proliferation, as well as a profound delay in functional maturation [ 17 ]. Other studies in our lab have demonstrated that exogenous CSF1 treatment can promote the growth of the liver and identified CSF1 as a key component of the hepatostat which maintains a relatively constant liver-body weight ratio [ 103 – 106 ]. Analysis of a liver-specific conditional  Jun  deletion [ 107 ] in mice suggests that reduced growth in the liver can be causally linked to reduced somatic growth. However, despite the reduced liver growth, the liver:body weight ratio is not affected in  Csf1rko  rats [ 17 ].
L84:The functions of Csf1r-dependent macrophages in hematopoiesis and organ maturation are largely redundant
L85:Microglia have been attributed numerous functions in postnatal development in the brain [ 77 ] but their complete absence in  Csf1rko  rats or in a hypomorphic mouse  Csf1r  mutant has surprisingly little impact on region-specific gene expression [ 19 , 108 ]. In the bone marrow, aside from OCL and osteomac deficiency, the  Csf1rko  rat lacks a resident macrophage population [ 62 ] that normally forms the centre of hematopoietic islands [ 109 , 110 ]. Fetal liver macrophages also provide a niche for the development of primitive erythroid cells, but these cells appear absent in the  Csf1rko  fetal liver without any apparent consequences for the generation of red blood cells [ 16 ]. Recent evidence in mice indicates that erythroblastic islands, containing a central macrophage surrounded by maturing erythroid cells, also provide a niche for terminal granulopoiesis [ 110 ] and maintain a balance between myeloid and erythroid production. The  Csf1rko  rat has an imbalance in favour of granulocytopoiesis over erythroid-megakaryocyte and B lymphocyte production, but the animals are not deficient in either red blood cells or platelets [ 15 ]. We suggest that reduced production of both red cells and platelets is linked to reduced clearance by tissue macrophages and some form of feedback control. We noted reduced detection of hemoglobin transcripts in every organ, especially the liver, which is likely a consequence of reduced numbers of erythrophagocytic macrophages, as well as >30-fold increase in expression of  Hamp  (hepcidin), the homeostatic regulator of iron transporters, in the liver. The latter observation is consistent with a regulatory pathway linking Kupffer cell erythrophagocytosis and hepcidin expression [ 111 ]. Similarly, CSF1 administration causes a transient thrombocytopenia, attributed to increased platelet clearance, which is resolved by an increase in platelet production [ 112 ]. If altered clearance of red cells and platelets is the mechanism that maintains homeostasis in the blood, then the imbalance between erythroid and myeloid fates in  Csf1rko  marrow is extrinsic and the function of resident marrow macrophages is entirely redundant.
L86:Unlike the extensive effects of the  Csf1rko  on the transcriptome of pituitary and liver, the impacts on tissue-specific gene expression in other major organs were subtle. The most obvious effect was the loss of macrophage-associated genes in each tissue, discussed below, but we also identified examples of developmental delay in multiple organs and subtle impacts on the peripheral nervous system and myelination. The severe effect of the  Csf1rko  on adipose development may reflect a role for resident macrophages as a source of growth factors, PDGFC and IL18, but it is likely also to reflect the complete loss of circulating IGF1 [ 113 ]. Indeed, given the systemic impacts of the  Csf1rko,  and the lack of clear dysregulation of known transcription factors and tissue-specific growth factors, it is really impossible to attribute any of these changes specifically to local macrophage roles.
L88:By correlation analysis of the entire dataset we identified a generic signature of 48 genes that are tightly correlated across non-lymphoid tissues which defines CSF1R-dependent macrophages in the rat. That signature includes C1Q, which was validated at the protein level and provided a sensitive biomarker of repopulation of the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) following BMT ( Fig 8A ). Surprisingly, the only transcription factor mRNA in this cluster was  Irf5 . IRF5 is commonly considered a marker of inflammatory macrophages [ 114 ] but it is constitutively expressed by diverse resident macrophage populations in mice [ 24 ] and rats [ 31 ]. In mice, Dick  et al.  [ 115 ] identified  Timd4/Lyve1/Folr2  (TLF) as a shared transcriptomic signature of yolk sac-derived self-renewing resident macrophages in every major organ of C57Bl6/J mice based upon scRNA-seq analysis. However, lineage-trace models have not been applied to other mouse strains or outbred mice, or other species [ 116 ]. Furthermore, it is clear that tissue disaggregation approaches do not generate a representative sample of resident tissue macrophages, many of which are fragmented, contaminated with unrelated cell types or activated in the isolation process [ 24 , 28 , 116 , 117 ]. For example, this artefact has likely confounded the isolation and characterisation of interstitial macrophages in the mouse lung [ 24 , 28 ]. Recently, Ural  et al.  [ 118 ] compared RNA-seq data from isolated CSF1/CSF1R-dependent mouse interstitial lung macrophages (IM) to alveolar macrophages. Of the IM markers they defined, only a small subset ( C1q, Adgre1, Clec10a, Cd163 , Class II MHC) overlap the CSF1R-dependent gene cluster in the rat (Cluster11,  S2 Table ) whereas  Siglec1  (CD169) and  Mgl2  are undetectable and  Mrc1  (CD206) is not CSF1R-dependent.
L89:Of the TLF signature, only  Folr2  translates to rat. The CSF1R-dependent cluster does not include  Timd4,  which is almost undetectable in tissues other than CSF1R-dependent expression in spleen and lymph node (in common with mouse, see data on BioGPS.org). This species difference may relate to promoter variation, since the rat  Timd4  gene appears to lack a TATA box that is present in the mouse proximal promoter (see  www.ensembl.org ). The functional consequence of the absence of TIM4 may be compensated in some tissues by macrophage expression of related genes,  Timd2  in liver and  Havcr2  (TIM3) in multiple organs including brain.  Lyve1  was readily detected in most tissues but with the exception of brain regions and adipose, it was not significantly reduced by the  Csf1rko  suggesting the main location of expression is in lymphatic vessels and  inter alia , that their development is macrophage independent.
L90:The F4/80 antigen encoded by the  Adgre1  gene was defined as a marker of interstitial macrophages in mice in the 1980s [ 119 ] and has been used extensively since [ 120 ]. The rapidly evolving  Adgre1  gene is expressed by macrophages in all mammalian species [ 121 ].  Adgre1  is CSF1R-dependent in every rat tissue suggesting that the expression is similar to mouse. We are currently confirming this prediction using a recently available anti-rat ADGRE1 antibody [ 122 ]. CD4 has been identified as a marker of subsets of tissue macrophages in mouse intestine but is not widely expressed by mouse macrophages [ 24 ]. By contrast, in rats [ 123 ] and humans [ 124 ] CD4 protein is expressed by monocytes and macrophages and  Cd4  forms part of the core macrophage signature in our analysis.
L91:One prominent feature of the CSF1R-dependent signature was the presence of mRNAs encoding multiple C type lectins of the  Clec4a  family, as well as  Clec10a  and  Cd33,  which have been associated with antigen uptake and antigen-presenting cell function in mice. These proteins have been referred to collectively as dendritic cell immunoreceptors, but this nomenclature is misleading and is not consistent with their more widespread expression in mouse MPS cells [ 24 ]. The expression signature of classical DC in the mouse [ 24 ] including  Flt3, Clec9a, Ly75, Ccr7, Itgae, Batf3, Xcr1  and  Ztbt46  was detectable in total RNA-seq data in every rat tissue we profiled but was unaffected by the  Csf1rko.  By contrast to mice, CSF1R-dependent macrophages, including resident peritoneal macrophages as shown here, express class II MHC, and accordingly detection of  Cd74,  the transcriptional regulator  Ciita  and class II MHC genes was CSF1R-dependent in most tissues. Residual CSF1R-independent MHCII expression in some tissues may be associated with the DC populations as well as B cells. Unlike the  Clec4a  family,  Clec4b2  was not CSF1R-dependent. DA rats actually have a loss-of-function mutation in this gene linked to genetic susceptibility to auto-immune disease [ 125 ].
L92:Notwithstanding the abundant literature on tissue-specific macrophage adaptation [ 5 , 6 , 126 , 127 ] we found few examples of tissue-specific CSF1R-dependent markers outside the liver and lymphoid organs. This conclusion is consistent with our published meta-analysis of profiles of isolated mouse macrophage populations [ 24 ]. Analysis of a comprehensive rat expression atlas that included isolated macrophage populations identified a set of genes that was strongly-enriched in macrophages compared to all tissues [ 23 ].  S10 Table  compares the set of CSF1R-dependent genes from this previous study with the lists of CSF1R-dependent genes in this study, including the global macrophage-enriched cluster [ 23 ], the microglial signature [ 19 ] and the set of CSF1R-dependent genes in tissues (kidney, heart, muscle, adipose, adrenal, pituitary, ovary) in which IBA1 +  cells were strongly depleted. Many of the genes within this list encode known endocytic receptors and macrophage markers and the evidence that resident macrophages are the dominant site of expression in tissues is not surprising. Others are less obvious and provide new insights. For example, leukotriene C4 synthase ( Ltc4s ), traditionally linked to mast cells and susceptibility to asthma [ 128 ] was highly-expressed and almost completely CSF1R-dependent in all tissues including the lymph node, lung and brain. A rare human LTC4S deficiency was associated with severe muscular hypotonia, psychomotor retardation and failure to thrive [ 129 ].  Ltc4s  knockout mice have attenuated innate and acquired immunity [ 130 ] and develop spontaneous emphysema [ 131 ]. Similarly, the macrophage-restricted expression of  Tbxas1  extends previous evidence [ 132 ] that these cells are the major source of the vasoactive arachidonic acid metabolite, thromboxane A2.
L93:Csf1r-dependent macrophages in lymphoid tissues are specialised for antigen capture
L94:Lymph nodes in mice contain multiple resident MPS cell populations including classical dendritic cells that depend upon FLT3-ligand, T cell zone macrophages, tingible body macrophages in germinal centres, subcapsular sinus macrophages (CD169+) and medullary sinus macrophages (CD209B+) [ 133 – 136 ]. The latter two populations are adapted to capture antigens, including viral and microbial pathogens, entering via the lymphatics and they are functionally related to the marginal zone and marginal zone metallophilic macrophages of the spleen. Both populations in spleen and LN are depleted by anti-CSF1R treatment [ 135 – 137 ]. Transcriptomic analysis of lymph node and splenic marginal zone macrophages has been compromised by their fragmentation during tissue disaggregation [ 117 , 136 , 138 ]. Identification of significant differentially-expressed genes between wild type and  Csf1rko  lymph nodes ( Fig 4B ) provides an alternative way to extract functional information about LN macrophages. We confirmed the CSF1R-dependent high expression of the transcription factor  Mafb  and signature genes such as  Adgre1, C1qa/b/c, Timd4  and  Folr2 , alongside those encoding numerous lectins including all 7 members of the rat CD209 cluster ( Cd209, Cd209a/b/c/d/e/f ),  Siglec1/5/10, Cd33  (aka  Siglec3 ),  Clec4a/a1/a3 ,  Clec4m  (aka L-SIGN),  Clec10a, Mrc1  and other endocytic receptors ( Havcr1, Fcgr1a, Stab1 ). We confirmed the complete loss of CD209B (SIGNR1) expressing macrophages in both LN and spleen of  Csf1rko  rats and identified a novel CSF1R-dependent CD209B+ population in the thymus ( Fig 4A ).  IL22ra2,  which encodes a decoy receptor and inhibitor of IL22, was amongst the most highly-expressed CSF1R-dependent genes and almost entirely lost in  Csf1rko  lymph nodes as seen previously in the spleen [ 15 ]. Jinnohara  et al.  [ 139 ] reported the expression of  Il22ra2  in sub-epithelial CD11b +  DC in mouse Peyer’s patches and decreased antigen uptake by M cells in  Il22ra2 -/-  mice. They did not detect  Il22ra2  in isolated DC from spleen or lymph node. However, they did not examine expression in macrophages  in situ.  Unexpectedly, in rat LN we also observed CSF1R-dependent expression of  P2ry12/13  and  Tmem119 , commonly considered microglial markers. In common with previous analysis in spleen [ 15 ], the macrophage-enriched transcription factor,  Tfec  [ 140 , 141 ] appears as a candidate transcriptional regulator in lymph node macrophages. Highlighting the power of our approach, few of the CSF1R-dependent genes we identified in rat LN were detected in scRNA-seq analysis of mouse LN [ 135 ] and some doubt would be cast upon identification of subpopulations in that study.
L95:We noted previously a population of IBA1 +  cells within T cell areas of LN and spleen that were unaffected by the  Csf1rko  and were not replaced by donor cells in BMT. The CSF1R-independent MPS population in LN may include T cell zone macrophages [ 133 ], expressing  Aif1, Itgam  (Cd11b),  Cx3cr1, Fcgr1a  and  Mertk , as well as FLT3-dependent classical dendritic cells.  Flt3lg  was highly-expressed in LN, and definitive markers of cDC1 including  Clec9a, Flt3, Ly75, Xcr1,  and  Zbtb46  [ 24 ] were not affected by the  Csf1rko . The T cell zone macrophages may, like those of the lung, be maintained by CSF2. Genes encoding the CSF2 receptor ( Csf2ra, Csf2rb ) were highly-expressed in rat LN and unaffected by the  Csf1rko , and the ligand ( Csf2 ) was significantly up-regulated.
L96:Complete rescue and maintenance of resident macrophages in Csf1rko rats can be achieved by adoptive transfer of wild-type bone marrow cells.
L97:The analysis of peritoneal macrophages ( S9 Table ) repopulated following BMT demonstrated that tissue-specific adaptation to the cavity niche can be fully recapitulated by bone marrow-derived cells of donor origin. Similarly, in the liver, the relative expression of macrophage-expressed transcripts including KC-specific genes was precisely restored and the transcriptomic profiles of WT and BMT livers were indistinguishable. We have shown elsewhere that the restoration of normal ossification and bone marrow architecture involves progressive infiltration by donor-derived macrophages prior to regeneration of osteoclasts [ 62 ]. Remarkably, the hematopoietic island macrophages, osteomacs and osteoclasts in BMT recipients are of donor origin whereas monocytic progenitor cells remain CSF1-unresponsive [ 17 , 18 , 62 ]. In the case of the lung, although alveolar macrophages express high levels of  Csf1r  mRNA [ 23 , 31 ], they are not CSF1R-dependent; but are nevertheless replaced by donor  Csf1r -mApple cells in the BMT [ 17 , 18 ]. The current analysis indicates that their gene expression profile adapted appropriately to the airway environment and was sufficient to reverse the emphysema-like pathology that is the major cause of morbidity in  Csf1rko  rats. This observation may have implications for the treatment of bronchopulmonary dysplasia that is a common morbidity in pre-term infants [ 142 ]. The repopulation of the  Csf1rko  airways as well as interstitial sites by donor-derived macrophages indicated that CSF1R signalling contributes to homeostasis. Consistent with that conclusion,  Csf1  deficiency is associated with emphysema in mice [ 26 ] and exacerbates the lung pathology observed in  Csf2 -deficient animals [ 143 ].
L98:Only in the brain was there evidence that donor bone marrow-derived cells fail to fully recapitulate the gene expression profile of microglia, in keeping with analysis in  Csf1rko  mice rescued by neonatal BMT [ 14 ]. Despite this difference, even 35 weeks post BMT we found no evidence of the extreme neurodevelopmental abnormalities seen in patients with homozygous  CSF1R  mutation [ 11 , 12 ] nor the age-dependent brain pathology (demyelination, thalamic calcification) described in microglia-deficient mice [ 55 , 144 , 145 ].
L99:Our previous study provided evidence that repopulation of the MPS of  Csf1rko  rats by WT donor cells involves migration and tissue infiltration by relatively immature IBA1 -ve ,  Csf1r -mApple +ve  cells which proliferate locally [ 18 ]. Both the initial migration/proliferation and the final relative density are presumably dictated by the local and systemic availability of CSF1R ligands, CSF1 and IL34. Here we identified an intermediate stage in repopulation of CD209B+ macrophages in spleen and LN, with development of clusters of positive cells detected in advance of restoration of marginal zone/medullary sinus populations ( S7 Fig ). Circulating CSF1 returns to baseline levels as tissue macrophage populations are restored [ 18 ]. Once repopulated, the tissue macrophages must be maintained without input from monocytes, which remain deficient and negative for CSF1R. The nature of the migrating progenitor remains unclear. The analysis of the relationship to macrophage lineage committed progenitors [ 146 ] awaits generation of key antibodies against KIT and FLT3 which are not currently available for the rat.
L101:In overview, this comprehensive analysis of the  Csf1rko  rat indicates that many proposed functions of macrophages in postnatal development [ 6 ] are at least partly redundant. The phenotypic consequences of macrophage deficiency are associated with complex dysregulation of a pituitary-bone-liver hormonal axis. Within that complex framework, the clearest non-redundant function of CSF1R-dependent cells is the osteoclastic resorption of bone, but osteoclast depletion in neonatal mice has no effect on somatic growth [ 147 ] and  Csf1 -deficient rats, which lack osteoclasts, are not severely growth inhibited [ 32 ]. The most remarkable finding in this model is that all of the deficiencies that occur in the  Csf1rko  rat prior to weaning are reversible. Against that background, we have shown previously that CSF1 administration to neonatal rats and infant pigs is well-tolerated and can drive expansion of resident tissue macrophage populations [ 105 , 106 ]. We therefore suggest that CSF1 has potential for the treatment of innate immune deficiency associated with prematurity.
L104:All animal experiments and protocols were approved by The University of Queensland Health Sciences Ethics Committee (2022/AE000191). Rats were bred and maintained at The University of Queensland (UQ).  Csf1rko  rats were housed with WT littermates and provided a supplemental diet comprising wet mashed standard chow along with veterinary powdered milk nutritional supplement (Di-Vetelact, Sydney, Australia).
L105:Bone marrow transfer (BMT)
L106:Bone marrow was collected from femurs and tibias of mApple + WT rats by flushing through a 40μm filter using a 21G needle. Cells were washed with PBS and resuspended in saline solution at 20x10 6  cells/100μL. 100μL was injected intraperitoneally into 3wk-old  Csf1rko  recipient rats. Recipients were maintained on the supplemental diet throughout the experiment and were co-housed with WT littermates.
L138:Statistical tests were performed using GraphPad Prism v9.4.1. Comparisons between WT and  Csf1rko  were conducted using unpaired, nonparametric Mann-Whitney tests. For comparisons of 3 or more, one-way ANOVA with multiple comparison testing was used.
L142:S1 Fig Pathology of  Csf1rko  lung. Representative H&E and elastin images of 3-week-old WT and  Csf1rko  lung. Lungs were expanded and flushed with PBS via the trachea prior to fixation. * indicates examples of terminal bronchioles. Arrows point to regions of alveolar wall destruction, as defined by a board certified veterinary anatomic pathologist. Original magnification: 40X. Scale bar: 100μm. (TIF)
L143:S2 Fig Expression of IBA1 in lymphoid organs. (A) Representative images showing immunohistochemical localization of CD209B (brown) in 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  liver. Scale bar: 100μm. (B) Representative images showing immunohistochemical localization of IBA1 (brown) in 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  thymus and mesenteric lymph node (mLN). Scale bar: 100μm. (TIF)
L144:S3 Fig The effect of  Csf1rko  on the diaphragm. (A) Representative Masson’s Trichrome images of 3 week WT and  Csf1rko  diaphragms. MD: muscular diaphragm, CT: central tendon. Muscular diaphragm region is showing the junction between muscular diaphragm and central tendon. Green arrows indicate regions of haemorrhage in both muscular diaphragm and the dense/loose connective tissue of the central tendon of  Csf1rko . Scale bar: 100μm. (B) Gene set enrichment plot showing a reduction in collagen related genes in the  Csf1rko  diaphragm. Created using the C2 (curated gene sets) collection from the Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). NES – Normalised Enrichment Score; FDR – False Discovery Rate; positive enrichment score indicates an enrichment in the WT animals and a negative enrichment in the  Csf1rko  animals. (TIF)
L145:S4 Fig Repopulation of tissue macrophage populations in  Csf1rko  rats following BMT. Representative whole-mount immunofluorescence images of tissues from  Csf1rko  rats 12 weeks after IP transfer of WT  Csf1r- mApple donor bone marrow cells. No fluorescent signal is detected in any tissue in nontransgenic WT rats or in untransplanted  Csf1rko  rats. Scale bar: 200μm. (TIF)
L146:S5 Fig Repopulation of tissue macrophages in the  Csf1rko  following WT bone marrow cell transfer (BMT). (A – C) Expression profiles in transcripts per million (TPM) for selected genes from RNA – Seq data of (A) peritoneal lavage (PT)(B) lung and (C) liver from WT and  Csf1rko  BMT recipients. Primary data is in  S9 Table . Graphs show the mean ± SD. (D) qRT – PCR analysis of adrenal glands from WT and  Csf1rko  BMT recipients (10 WT; 9-10  Csf1rko  + BMT). Graphs show the mean ± SD. *, P < 0.05; **, P < 0.01; ***, P < 0.001; ****, P < 0.0001. (TIF)
L148:S7 Fig Pattern of repopulation of CD209b +  macrophages in spleen following BMT. Representative images showing immunohistochemical localization of CD209B (brown) in  Csf1rko  BMT recipient spleens at different time points post BMT. 3 different regions of the same spleen are shown for 2 wks post BMT. Scale bar: 200μm. Original magnification for all images: 40X. (TIF)
L158:S10 Table CSF1R Dependent Genes. (XLSX)
L166:4 Chitu V ,  Stanley ER .  Regulation of embryonic and postnatal development by the CSF-1 receptor .  Curr Top Dev Biol .  2017 ; 123 : 229 – 75 .  doi:  10.1016/bs.ctdb.2016.10.004 
L177:10 Hume DA ,  Caruso M ,  Ferrari-Cestari M ,  Summers KM ,  Pridans C ,  Irvine KM ,  et al .  Phenotypic impacts of CSF1R deficiencies in humans and model organisms .  J Leukoc Biol .  2020 ; 107 ( 2 ): 205 – 19 .  doi:  10.1002/JLB.MR0519-143R 
L179:11 Guo L ,  Bertola DR ,  Takanohashi A ,  Saito A ,  Segawa Y ,  Yokota T ,  et al .  Bi-allelic CSF1R mutations cause skeletal dysplasia of dysosteosclerosis-pyle disease spectrum and degenerative encephalopathy with brain malformation .  Am J Hum Genet .  2019 ; 104 ( 5 ): 925 – 35 .  doi:  10.1016/j.ajhg.2019.03.004 
L181:12 Oosterhof N ,  Chang IJ ,  Karimiani EG ,  Kuil LE ,  Jensen DM ,  Daza R ,  et al .  Homozygous mutations in csf1r cause a pediatric-onset leukoencephalopathy and can result in congenital absence of microglia .  Am J Hum Genet .  2019 ; 104 ( 5 ): 936 – 47 .  doi:  10.1016/j.ajhg.2019.03.010 
L187:15 Pridans C ,  Raper A ,  Davis GM ,  Alves J ,  Sauter KA ,  Lefevre L ,  et al .  Pleiotropic Impacts of Macrophage and Microglial Deficiency on Development in Rats with Targeted Mutation of the Csf1r Locus .  J Immunol .  2018 ; 201 ( 9 ): 2683 – 99 .  doi:  10.4049/jimmunol.1701783 
L189:16 Hume DA ,  Teakle N ,  Keshvari S ,  Irvine KM .  Macrophage deficiency in CSF1R-knockout rat embryos does not compromise placental or embryo development .  J Leukoc Biol .  2023 ; 114 ( 5 ): 421 – 33 .  doi:  10.1093/jleuko/qiad052 
L191:17 Keshvari S ,  Caruso M ,  Teakle N ,  Batoon L ,  Sehgal A ,  Patkar OL ,  et al .  CSF1R-dependent macrophages control postnatal somatic growth and organ maturation .  PLoS Genet .  2021 ; 17 ( 6 ): e1009605 .  doi:  10.1371/journal.pgen.1009605 
L193:18 Sehgal A ,  Carter-Cusack D ,  Keshvari S ,  Patkar O ,  Huang S ,  Summers KM ,  et al .  Intraperitoneal transfer of wild-type bone marrow repopulates tissue macrophages in the Csf1r knockout rat without contributing to monocytopoiesis .  Eur J Immunol .  2023 ; 53 ( 8 ): e2250312 .  doi:  10.1002/eji.202250312 
L195:19 Patkar OL ,  Caruso M ,  Teakle N ,  Keshvari S ,  Bush SJ ,  Pridans C ,  et al .  Analysis of homozygous and heterozygous Csf1r knockout in the rat as a model for understanding microglial function in brain development and the impacts of human CSF1R mutations .  Neurobiol Dis .  2021 ; 151 : 105268 .  doi:  10.1016/j.nbd.2021.105268 
L209:26 Shibata Y ,  Zsengeller Z ,  Otake K ,  Palaniyar N ,  Trapnell BC .  Alveolar macrophage deficiency in osteopetrotic mice deficient in macrophage colony-stimulating factor is spontaneously corrected with age and associated with matrix metalloproteinase expression and emphysema .  Blood .  2001 ; 98 ( 9 ): 2845 – 52 .  doi:  10.1182/blood.v98.9.2845 
L215:29 Van Wesenbeeck L ,  Odgren PR ,  MacKay CA ,  D’Angelo M ,  Safadi FF ,  Popoff SN ,  et al .  The osteopetrotic mutation toothless (tl) is a loss-of-function frameshift mutation in the rat Csf1 gene: Evidence of a crucial role for CSF-1 in osteoclastogenesis and endochondral ossification .  Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A .  2002 ; 99 ( 22 ): 14303 – 8 .  doi:  10.1073/pnas.202332999 
L243:43 Sehgal A ,  Donaldson DS ,  Pridans C ,  Sauter KA ,  Hume DA ,  Mabbott NA .  The role of CSF1R-dependent macrophages in control of the intestinal stem-cell niche .  Nat Commun .  2018 ; 9 ( 1 ): 1272 .  doi:  10.1038/s41467-018-03638-6 
L259:51 Huynh D ,  Akçora D ,  Malaterre J ,  Chan CK ,  Dai X-M ,  Bertoncello I ,  et al .  CSF-1 receptor-dependent colon development, homeostasis and inflammatory stress response .  PLoS One .  2013 ; 8 ( 2 ): e56951 .  doi:  10.1371/journal.pone.0056951 
L281:62 Batoon L ,  Keshvari S ,  Irvine KM ,  Ho E ,  Caruso M ,  Patkar OL ,  et al .  Relative contributions of osteal macrophages and osteoclasts to postnatal bone development in CSF1R-deficient rats and phenotype rescue following wild-type bone marrow cell transfer .  J Leukoc Biol .  2024 ; 116 ( 4 ): 753 – 65 .  doi:  10.1093/jleuko/qiae077 
L307:75 Petry F ,  Botto M ,  Holtappels R ,  Walport MJ ,  Loos M .  Reconstitution of the complement function in C1q-deficient (C1qa-/-) mice with wild-type bone marrow cells .  J Immunol .  2001 ; 167 ( 7 ): 4033 – 7 .  doi:  10.4049/jimmunol.167.7.4033 
L313:78 Bain CC ,  Hawley CA ,  Garner H ,  Scott CL ,  Schridde A ,  Steers NJ ,  et al .  Long-lived self-renewing bone marrow-derived macrophages displace embryo-derived cells to inhabit adult serous cavities .  Nat Commun .  2016 ; 7 ncomms11852 .  doi:  10.1038/ncomms11852 
L363:103 Gow DJ ,  Sauter KA ,  Pridans C ,  Moffat L ,  Sehgal A ,  Stutchfield BM ,  et al .  Characterisation of a novel Fc conjugate of macrophage colony-stimulating factor .  Mol Ther .  2014 ; 22 ( 9 ): 1580 – 92 .  doi:  10.1038/mt.2014.112 
L365:104 Keshvari S ,  Genz B ,  Teakle N ,  Caruso M ,  Cestari MF ,  Patkar OL ,  et al .  Therapeutic potential of macrophage colony-stimulating factor in chronic liver disease .  Dis Model Mech .  2022 ; 15 ( 4 ): dmm049387 .  doi:  10.1242/dmm.049387 
L367:105 Pridans C ,  Sauter KA ,  Irvine KM ,  Davis GM ,  Lefevre L ,  Raper A ,  et al .  Macrophage colony-stimulating factor increases hepatic macrophage content, liver growth, and lipid accumulation in neonatal rats .  Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol .  2018 ; 314 ( 3 ): G388 – 98 .  doi:  10.1152/ajpgi.00343.2017 
L369:106 Sauter KA ,  Waddell LA ,  Lisowski ZM ,  Young R ,  Lefevre L ,  Davis GM ,  et al .  Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF1) controls monocyte production and maturation and the steady-state size of the liver in pigs .  Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol .  2016 ; 311 ( 3 ): G533-47 .  doi:  10.1152/ajpgi.00116.2016 
L373:108 Rojo R ,  Raper A ,  Ozdemir DD ,  Lefevre L ,  Grabert K ,  Wollscheid-Lengeling E ,  et al .  Deletion of a Csf1r enhancer selectively impacts CSF1R expression and development of tissue macrophage populations .  Nat Commun .  2019 ; 10 ( 1 ): 3215 .  doi:  10.1038/s41467-019-11053-8 
L375:109 Kaur S ,  Raggatt LJ ,  Batoon L ,  Hume DA ,  Levesque J-P ,  Pettit AR .  Role of bone marrow macrophages in controlling homeostasis and repair in bone and bone marrow niches .  Semin Cell Dev Biol .  2017 ; 61 : 12 – 21 .  doi:  10.1016/j.semcdb.2016.08.009 
L381:112 Baker GR ,  Levin J .  Transient thrombocytopenia produced by administration of macrophage colony-stimulating factor: investigations of the mechanism .  Blood .  1998 ; 91 ( 1 ): 89 – 99 .  doi:  10.1182/blood.v91.1.89.89_89_99 
L429:137 MacDonald KPA ,  Palmer JS ,  Cronau S ,  Seppanen E ,  Olver S ,  Raffelt NC ,  et al .  An antibody against the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor depletes the resident subset of monocytes and tissue- and tumor-associated macrophages but does not inhibit inflammation .  Blood .  2010 ; 116 ( 19 ): 3955 – 63 .  doi:  10.1182/blood-2010-02-266296 
L437:141 Rehli M ,  Sulzbacher S ,  Pape S ,  Ravasi T ,  Wells CA ,  Heinz S ,  et al .  Transcription factor Tfec contributes to the IL-4-inducible expression of a small group of genes in mouse macrophages including the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor .  J Immunol .  2005 ; 174 ( 11 ): 7111 – 22 .  doi:  10.4049/jimmunol.174.11.7111 
L441:143 Lieschke GJ ,  Stanley E ,  Grail D ,  Hodgson G ,  Sinickas V ,  Gall JA ,  et al .  Mice lacking both macrophage- and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor have macrophages and coexistent osteopetrosis and severe lung disease .  Blood .  1994 ; 84 ( 1 ): 27 – 35 .  doi:  10.1182/blood.v84.1.27.27 
L443:144 Chadarevian JP ,  Hasselmann J ,  Lahian A ,  Capocchi JK ,  Escobar A ,  Lim TE ,  et al .  Therapeutic potential of human microglia transplantation in a chimeric model of CSF1R-related leukoencephalopathy .  Neuron .  2024 ; 112 ( 16 ): 2686 – 707.e8 .  doi:  10.1016/j.neuron.2024.05.023 
L460:We would like to thank the UQ PACE Biological Resources Facility staff for their assistance with breeding and husbandry of the  Csf1rko  rats. DAH/KMI/KMS gratefully acknowledge core laboratory support from The Mater Foundation. TRI is supported by the Australian Government.
L2688:| condition | str | 155 | sex, tissue, Csf1r |
L2689:| col_1 | str | 153 | Csf1r, C1qb, C1qc |
L2690:| col_2 | str | 153 | colony stimulating factor 1 receptor, complement C1q B ch... |
L2710:| condition | str | 132 | sex, tissue, Csf1r |
L2711:| col_1 | str | 130 | Csf1r, C1qb, Ms4a4e |
L2712:| col_2 | str | 130 | colony stimulating factor 1 receptor, complement C1q B ch... |
L6068:## Sheet: (F) WAT CSF1R dependent genes
L6075:| Adipose CSF1R-dependent | str | 286 | AABR07003235.1, AABR07009978.1, AABR07029195.1 |
L6515:| CD37 molecule | str | 23 | Cd53 molecule, colony stimulating factor 3 receptor, dock... |
L7275:| col_7 | str | 2 | Csf1r is in a cluster by itself, Think this might be beca... |
L8410:Carter-Cusack et al. provide a comprehensive, descriptive study on Csf1rko rats, both reconstituted with and without BM. It is encouraging to see that the macrophage population in rats resembles the gene transcript profiles of mice and humans. Among their findings, C1q emerged as a prominent gene signature, strongly associated with interstitial macrophages. Notably, interstitial macrophages do not develop in the absence of CSF1, as demonstrated in studies by Ural et al. (Sci Immunology, 2020) on the lung and Lim et al. (Immunity, 2018; 10.1016/j.immuni.2018.06.008) on the heart. Thus, the loss of gene signatures outlined in this study unmistakably points to interstitial macrophages, a population present across various organs and species. Recommended additional papers for assessing interstitial macrophage genes across various organs and species include the following:
L8423:While the analysis demonstrates CSF1R dependency across tissues, particularly non-lymphoid organs, Figure 1 could benefit from additional annotations that highlight critical findings. For instance, identifying clusters with substantial CSF1R-dependent gene expression changes would strengthen the figure's biological relevance, especially regarding key clusters such as the macrophage-associated genes found in subsequent analyses.
L8424:Figure 1 has been expanded to provide more context and highlight additional clusters of interest. Figure 1B now includes labels to clusters other than the Csf1r-dependent macrophage cluster. Figure 1C has been added to show the expression profiles of these clusters.
L8426:Figure 3E has been amended to include additional annotations to aid in the explanation of the morphology and cellular localisation. The text has been changed to make it clearer that the CD163+ cells are completely lost in the Csf1rko animals (lines 218-220).
L8427:Figure 4 demonstrates the immunohistochemical localization of CD209B in the thymus, spleen, and mesenteric lymph nodes at 40X magnification with a 100µm scale bar, yet it lacks clarity on notable qualitative or quantitative differences across tissues, which would help distinguish each representation . Additionally, the volcano plot showing differential expression (DE) between WT and Csf1rko lymph nodes, calculated using DESeq2 with log fold changes adjusted via lfcShrink, could benefit from more detailed context on specific genes or clusters impacted by this DE analysis to enhance understanding of key findings.
L8428:Figure 4 has been changed to include zoomed in regions of each tissue to provide a clearer view of the cellular localisation of the CD209b+ macrophages. Additional annotations have been added to these images to provide context to the tissue structures. Quantification was not performed on this staining. The modified images show CD209b+ macrophages are entirely absent in the Csf1rko. We have added a sentence in results pointing to the more detailed of the function of Csf1r-dependent macrophages in antigen sampling in the discussion
L8429:Figure 5 discusses gene expression profiles in WT and Csf1rko samples across gut tissues (colon, ileum, and duodenum) but lacks clarity on gene selection criteria and specific affected clusters, which would aid comprehension. It groups Csf1r-dependent genes into those common across all gut tissues, those more impacted in the colon and duodenum, and DC-associated genes elevated in the Csf1rko ileum, though further explanation of this segmentation’s relevance to the study is needed. Additionally, Figure 5D’s immunohistochemical staining for peripherin in the ileum and its quantification require more context to clarify its role in neuronal development or gut function within the Csf1rko model.
L8430:An addition panel has been added to Figure 5 (Figure 5A) to clarify the reasoning for selecting the specific genes shown in the following panels. Figure 5A shows the Csf1r dependent cluster in all 3 regions of gastrointestinal tract. The genes in this cluster follow slightly different patterns of expression in each region, and this is shown in panels 5B and 5C. A subset of the genes was undetectable in all regions of gut in the Csf1rko (Figure 5B), while another subset was maintained to a certain degree in the ileum (Figure 5C). The reference to classical DC markers (Figure 5D) has been referenced and clarified in the revised text.
L8433:Substantial changes have been made to Figure 6 to provide more clarity, and to more strongly link the results text to the figure panels. Cluster expression plots and gene ontology term annotation are now shown in Figure 6A for clusters 1, 4, and 5. This is to strengthen the statements made in the text that these clusters are involved in protein synthesis, satellite cell expression, and mature muscle function. When taken together, these new figures provide more context to the conclusion that the Csf1rko skeletal muscle is developmentally delayed compared to wild type. The full tables of gene ontology analysis for clusters 1, 4 and 5 have been added to Table S5 (Table S5B-D).
L8436:For Figure 7, the main issues in the manuscript include a lack of clarity in the rationale for focusing on specific gene expression profiles in the kidney and adrenal gland. Additionally, there is insufficient contextual information about the functional relevance of selected genes, particularly regarding their potential impact on the organ development being studied. The calcium concentration measurement results would benefit from more detailed interpretation to strengthen the findings. The imaging details, especially for the adrenal gland, could also be improved to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the histological differences between WT and Csf1rko samples. This would enhance reader comprehension of both the structural and molecular alterations under investigation.
L8437:Figure 7 has been changed to improve the clarity in relation to the text. Network analysis cluster plots were added in Figure 7A to aid in the description of the changes to the regions of kidney associated with the Csf1rko (Lines 390-399). Quantification of glomeruli within the kidney in Csf1rko and wild type has also been added to confirm the inferred increase based on glomerular markers in the RNA-seq data.
L8438:Additional background has been given in the text regarding calcium dyshomeostasis and its relevance to the Csf1rko model (namely that these animals undergo severe osteopetrosis due to a lack of osteoclasts, and therefore lose the primary method of calcium homeostasis in the body) (Lines 400-412). This additional information provides greater context for the interpretation of the serum calcium concentration, the evidence for up-regulation of PTH responsive genes as well as the reasons for choosing the genes shown in Figure 7D.
L8439:Significant annotations have been added to the histology images of the adrenal gland in Figure 7E. This was done to clearly show the different regions of the adrenal cortex and medulla, thus highlighting how these regions differ between WT and Csf1rko. A substantial portion of text has been added to describe these histological differences more clearly (Lines 418-424).
L8440:The main concerns regarding the descriptions for Figure 8 focus on the clarity and depth of the gene expression analysis across multiple tissues. There is a need to specify better the rationale behind selecting particular genes for expression profiling in WT and Csf1rko samples and to discuss the impact of differentially expressed genes within the intestinal regions examined. Additionally, more explicit detail on tissue-specific gene clusters and their significance would enhance the figure’s interpretive value.
L8441:The reasoning behind selecting certain genes to use as examples has been clarified. For the peritoneal cavity (Lines 515-517) and liver (Line 534), references have been added to provide reasoning for the selection of certain genes. For the lung, the analysis of the 3 week old WT and Csf1rko lungs showed that genes chosen were among the most correlated with the loss of Csf1r, and were therefore good markers of the interstitial macrophages that are lost (Lines 529-530).
L8443:It would be helpful to discuss why circulating C1Q is undetectable in Csf1rko rats. While I understand the study is comprehensive, I recommend condensing the discussion section to focus on the main findings.
[189ms]
