L1:The bone marrow of mouse-rat chimeras contains progenitors of multiple pulmonary cell lineages
L16:Radiation-induced lung injury (RILI) is a common complication of anti-cancer treatments for thoracic and hematologic malignancies. Bone marrow (BM) transplantation restores hematopoietic cell lineages in cancer patients. However, it is ineffective in improving lung repair after RILI due to the paucity of respiratory progenitors in BM transplants. In the present study, we used blastocyst injection to create mouse-rat chimeras, these are artificial animals in which BM is enriched with mouse-derived progenitor cells. FACS-sorted mouse BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras were transplanted into lethally irradiated syngeneic mice, and the contribution of donor cells to the lung tissue was examined using immunostaining and flow cytometry. Donor BM cells provided long-term contributions to all lung-resident hematopoietic cells which includes alveolar macrophages and dendritic cells. Surprisingly, donor BM cells also contributed up to 8% in pulmonary endothelial cells and stromal cells after RILI. To identify respiratory progenitors in donor BM, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq). Compared to normal mouse BM, increased numbers of hematopoietic progenitors were found in the BM of mouse-rat chimeras. We also identified unique populations of hemangioblast-like progenitor cells expressing  Hes1 ,  Dntt  and  Ebf1,  along with mesenchymal stromal cells expressing  Cpox ,  Blvrb  and  Ermap  that were absent or ultra-rare in the normal mouse BM. In summary, by using rats as “bioreactors”, we created a unique mouse BM cell transplant that contributes to multiple respiratory cell types after RILI. Interspecies chimeras have promise for future generations of BM transplants enriched in respiratory progenitor cells.
L18:mouse-rat chimera; blastocyst injection; lung; bone marrow; respiratory progenitor cells
L21:Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) reside in BM, self-renew and differentiate into multipotent progenitor cells (MPPs), initiating the process of hematopoiesis ( Oguro et al., 2013 ). MPPs further differentiate into common myeloid progenitors (CMPs), lymphoid-primed multipotent progenitors (LMPPs), and common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs). As BM cell division progresses, lineage restrictions occur, ultimately leading to the generation of all mature blood cell types. While BM contains hemangioblast-like cells (HABs) which are bipotential progenitors for both blood and endothelial cell lineages ( Mikkola and Orkin, 2006 ). BM-derived HABs are rare. Various BM-derived cell types circulate throughout the body in the peripheral blood and enter different organ tissues to perform their respective functions. Dendritic cell populations in radiation-injured lungs can be restored via bone marrow transplantation ( Hahn et al., 2011 ). BM monocytes can differentiate into alveolar macrophages (AM) that require CD44 interaction with hyaluronan to promote AM cell survival ( Dong et al., 2018 ). These results showed that both dendritic cells and alveolar macrophages in the lung tissue can derive from donor BM transplants. Published studies demonstrated that progenitor cells for lung endothelial cell (EC) lineages originate from both lung resident ECs and BM-derived circulating endothelial progenitor cells expressing CD31 and CD45 ( Balasubramaniam et al., 2007 ). Bipotential HABs and hemogenic endothelium are common in embryonic tissues such as the yolk sac and dorsal aorta ( Nishikawa et al., 1998 ). However, their presence in adult lung tissue has not been documented. It is unclear whether HABs can be isolated from bone marrow and used for lung regenerative medicine.
L22:Using the blastocyst injection technology, differentiation of multiple cell lineages from pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can be achieved in intraspecies (within a species) and interspecies (between species) chimeras. Blastocyst injection involves the transfer of donor ESCs into early embryos (blastocysts) of recipient animals to form chimeras. Donor ESCs undergo differentiation within recipient embryos that act as “biological reactors”, providing growth factors, hormones, and cellular microenvironments to promote and guide ESC differentiation in endogenous cell niches. Recently, we generated fully functional BM from mouse ESCs using mouse-rat interspecies chimeras ( Wen et al., 2022 ). ESC-derived BM rescued lethally irradiated syngeneic mice and provided the long-term reconstitution to all hematopoietic cell lineages in the bone marrow and peripheral blood ( Wen et al., 2022 ). The chimeric BM from mouse-rat chimeras was enriched in mouse-derived HSCs and other hematopoietic progenitor cells ( Wen et al., 2022 ). While donor BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras exhibited increased regenerative capacity for the BM and peripheral blood of lethally irradiated recipient mice ( Wen et al., 2022 ), it is unclear whether chimeric BM contains progenitor cells for non-hematopoietic cell lineages.
L23:In this study, we used blastocyst injection of mouse ESCs and rat blastocysts to generate mouse-rat chimeras and examine the capacity of the chimeric ESC-derived BM cells to contribute to respiratory cell lineages in lethally irradiated syngeneic mice. ESC-derives donor BM cells differentiated into multiple respiratory cell lineages including lung-resident dendritic cells, alveolar macrophages, and cells of stromal, endothelial, and epithelial origins. Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we identified unique subsets of ESC-derived cells within the bone marrow of mouse-rat chimeras, such as hemangioblast-like and mesenchymal stromal cells, with distinct gene expression signatures compared to normal mouse BM. The present study highlights the potential of the interspecies chimeric technology to simultaneously produce multiple respiratory progenitors from pluripotent ESCs for lung regenerative medicine.
L25:Mice, rats and generation of mouse-rat and mouse-mouse chimeras through blastocyst injection. Interspecies mouse-rat chimeras were generated using blastocyst injection as described ( Li et al., 2021 ;  Wang et al., 2021 ). Briefly, blastocysts from SD rats were obtained at embryonic day 4.5 (E4.5), injected with fifteen GFP-labeled mouse ES cells (ESCs-GFP, C57BL/6 background) ( Wen et al., 2021 ) and transferred into pseudo-pregnant SD rat females. Mouse-mouse chimeras were generated by complementing CD1 blastocysts with 15 mouse ESC-GFP cells. For FACS analysis and BM transplantation, BM cells were obtained from chimeric pups that were collected between postnatal day 4 (P4) and postnatal day 10 (P10). For single-cell RNA sequencing, BM cells were prepared from P10 chimeras. To perform BM cells transplantation, BM cells from two tibias and two fibulas of mouse-rat chimeras were FACS-sorted for ESC-derived (GFP + ) cells. 500,000 of FACS-sorted GFP +  BM cells (pooled from five to nine mouse-rat chimeras) were intravenously (i.v.) injected into lethally radiated C57BL/6 male mice (6–8 weeks of age) via the tail vein. Three hours before BM cell transplantation, whole-body irradiation was performed using 11.75 Gy. Mice were harvested 8 days and 5 months after BM transplantation. Tissue dissection, processing and preparation of single-cell suspensions were carried out as described ( Kalinichenko et al., 2003 ;  Kim et al., 2005 ;  Malin et al., 2007 ;  Kalin et al., 2008 ;  Bolte et al., 2011 ).
L26:Single-Cell RNA sequencing analysis of ESC-derived bone marrow cells. Prior to single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) (10X Chromium platform), BM cells were pooled from three P10 mouse-rat chimeras and three P10 mouse-mouse (control) chimeras and then FACS-sorted for GFP and the  lineage  (Lin) marker. Since the numbers of HSCs and other progenitors in BM are significantly low compared to numbers of differentiated hematopoietic cells, the cell mixtures were enriched for BM progenitor cell populations by combining 90% of FACS-sorted GFP + Lin – cells and 10% of FACS-sorted GFP + Lin +  cells in each experimental group. This enrichment enabled us to obtain enough progenitor cells for UMAP clustering analysis. All raw data and the processed count matrix of BM cells datasets were uploaded to the GEO database (accession number  GSE184940 ). Read alignments, quality controls and false discovery rates were described previously ( Ren et al., 2019 ;  Wang et al., 2022 ;  Wen et al., 2024 ). Identification of cell clusters and quantification of cluster-specific gene expression in BM cells scRNAseq datasets was performed as described ( Wen et al., 2022 ). To assess the transcriptomic similarity of ESC-derived and endogenous BM cells, the scRNAseq datasets were normalized using the  SCTransform  function and then integrated utilizing the canonical correlation analysis (CCA). In the integrated scRNAseq datasets, the  SelectIntegrationFeatures  function in Seurat package (version 4.0.0 in R 4.0 statistical environment) was used to identify anchors for integration. The  RunPCA  function was used for principal component analysis (PCA) of scRNAseq datasets, and the  PCElbowPlot  function was used to calculate the standard deviations of the principal components (PCs). PCs with standard deviation >3.5 were chosen as input parameters for non-linear UMAP clustering analysis. Next, the  FindNeighbors  function was used to compute the k. param nearest neighbors, and BM cells clusters were identified by a shared nearest neighbor (SNN) modularity optimization clustering algorithm implemented in the  FindClusters  function with resolution set at 0.4 ( Wang et al., 2021 ;  Wen et al., 2021 ).
L31:Mouse BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras provide long-term contribution to the lungs of mice injured by whole-body irradiation. Interspecies mouse-rat chimeras provide a unique environment which allows mouse-derived hematopoietic stem cells to accumulate in the bone marrow in large amounts ( Wen et al., 2022 ). To determine whether mouse-rat BM contains progenitors capable of regenerating lung tissue, we examined lungs of syngeneic mice that underwent whole-body γ irradiation followed by BM transplantation. Mouse C57BL/6 ESCs labeled with green fluorescent protein (ESCs-GFP) were injected into rat SD blastocysts to generate mouse-rat chimeric embryos which were transferred to pregnant rats to undergo embryogenesis  in utero  ( Figure 1A ). After the birth of mouse-rat chimeras, BM was isolated from femurs and tibias. Mouse ESC-derived BM cells were FACS-sorted for GFP and injected into lethally irradiated syngeneic adult mice via the tail vein. Lung tissues were collected on the eighth day and the fifth month after BM cell transplantation ( Figure 1A ). To identify donor-derived cells in the lung, we used flow cytometry to detect GFP + cells in enzymatically digested lung tissue. Antibodies against mouse CD45, CD31, CD326, CD140a, and NG2 were used to identify hematopoietic cells (CD45 + ), endothelial cells (CD31 + CD45 − ), epithelial cells (CD326+CD31 − CD45 − ), fibroblasts (CD140a+CD31 − CD45 − CD326-) and pericytes (NG2+CD31 − CD45 − CD326-CD140a-) ( Figure 1B ,  Supplementary Figure SE1, 2A ). On the eighth day and the fifth month, percentages of GFP + cells among total lung cells were approximately 5% and 30% respectively ( Figure 1C ). Hematopoietic cells had the highest proportion among all GFP + donor cells, whereas the percentages of epithelial cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and pericytes were lower ( Figure 1D  and E2C). The percentage of GFP + hematopoietic cells among total hematopoietic cells was the highest, reaching 40% at day 8 (Figure E2B-E2D) and 68% at 5 months ( Figure 1E ;  Supplementary Figure SE2B ). The contribution of donor BM cells to epithelial cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts and pericytes was lower but easily detectable by FACS analysis of recipient lungs 5 months after BM transplantation ( Figure 1E ). Donor cells were not observed among non-hematopoietic cell types at day 8 ( Supplementary Figure SE2D ). Thus, donor BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras provide a long-term contribution to multiple respiratory cell types after radiation-induced lung injury.
L32:FIGURE 1 ESC-derived BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras contribute to lungs of lethally irradiated mice after BM transplantation.  (A)  Schematic diagram illustrating the rescue of lethally radiated mice by BM cells derived from GFP-labeled mouse ESCs. Mouse ESCs were injected into rat blastocysts, and the chimeric blastocysts were implanted into surrogate rats. Femur and tibia bones from P4-P10 chimeric pups were collected, and ESC-derived cells were isolated using FACS sorting for GFP. Subsequently, BM cells were injected into lethally irradiated recipient mice.  (B)  Donor ESC-derived cells were analyzed by FACS analysis of lung tissue on the fifth month after irradiation. Endothelial cells (Endo), hematopoietic cells (Hema), fibroblasts (Fib), epithelial cells (Epi), and pericytes (Peri) were identified in recipient lungs using specific cell surface markers.  (C)  Graph shows GFP fluorescence in lung cells 8 days (n = 10 mice per group) and 5 months (n = 14 mice per group) after BM transplantation.  (D)  Graph shows the proportions of endothelial cells, hematopoietic cells, fibroblasts, epithelial cells, and pericytes among total GFP + donor cells 5 months after BM transplantation.  (E)  Graph shows the proportions of GFP + cells in various populations of lung cells from recipient lungs 5 months after BM transplantation.
L39:Single-cell RNA sequencing identifies multiple ESC-derived cell subsets in the bone marrow of mouse-rat chimeras. To identify ESC-derived progenitor cells in the BM of mouse-rat chimeras that can differentiate into respiratory cell types, we FACS-sorted GFP + BM cells and performed scRNAseq using 10X Chromium platform. Mouse ESC-derived cells from mouse-rat chimeras at postnatal day 10 (P10) were compared with ESC-derived cells from mouse-mouse chimeras at the same age (control group). Control mouse-mouse chimeras were generated by injection of mouse blastocysts with the same line of mouse ESC-GFP cells to control for embryonic manipulations, genetic background and pluripotency of ESC line used for blastocyst injection. Since the number of HSCs and other progenitor cells in the bone marrow is relatively low, we mixed 90% of FACS-sorted GFP + Lin-progenitor cells with 10% of GFP + Lin + differentiated cells to enrich for BM progenitor cells before scRNAseq. Since BM was washed from the bone, the vast majority of cells were hematopoietic. To account for individual variations, BM cells from three chimeras in each group were pooled prior to FACS sorting. Based on published gene expression signatures in mouse BM cells ( Wen et al., 2022 ), 11,227 cells from 21 major cell subtypes were identified, including erythroid progenitors, megakaryocytes, multipotent progenitors, monocytes, granulocyte-monocyte progenitors, eosinophil/basophil progenitors, neutrophil progenitor cells, lymphoid progenitor cells, pro-B cells, pre-B cells, immature DCs, plasmacytoid DCs, hematopoietic stem cells, lymphoid cells, granulocytes, monocytes, erythrocytes, NK cells, T cells, and B cells ( Figure 5A ;  5B , and E13). Compared to the control chimeras, the percentage of progenitor cells was higher in BM of mouse-rat chimeras ( Figure 5B ). Specifically, the percentages of mouse ESC-derived erythroid progenitors (8.1%), multipotent progenitors (8.6%), granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (8.0%), eosinophil/basophil progenitors (8.5%), and hematopoietic stem cells (0.8%) were higher in mouse-rat chimeras compared to control mouse-mouse chimeras ( Figures 5B, C ). Among progenitor cells, only pro-B and pre-B cells were lower in mouse-rat chimeras compared to control mouse-mouse chimeras ( Figure 5C ). In contrast, B cells were more abundant in BM of control chimeras compared to mouse-rat chimeras ( Figures 5B, C ). The percentages of DCs, monocytes, NK cells, and T cells were higher in the mouse-rat chimeras ( Figure 5C ). Overall, although ESC-derived BM cells in both the mouse-rat and control chimeras exhibited similar cell compositions, the mouse-rat chimeras were enriched with various progenitor cells.
L45:Single-cell RNA sequencing identifies ESC-derived mesenchymal stromal cells in the bone marrow of the mouse-rat chimeras. Immunostaining of lung sections and flow cytometry showed that BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras contribute to epithelial cells, fibroblasts, and pericytes in irradiated recipient lungs ( Figure 1B ;  Supplementary Figure SE1D-E ), raising a possibility that donor BM cells contain progenitors of these cell lineages. Therefore, we followed up by performing a sub-clustering analysis of scRNAseq to identify ESC-derived BM mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) that are known to differentiate into multiple mesenchymal cell lineages, including fibroblasts and pericytes ( Wolock et al., 2019 ;  Leimkuhler et al., 2021 ). BM MSCs exhibited gene expression similarities with erythroid progenitor cells and megakaryocyte progenitor cells as shown by UMAP plot ( Figure 7A ). Interestingly, erythrocyte progenitors, megakaryocyte progenitors and MSCs accounted for only 31 cells in control mouse-mouse chimeras, including 14 erythroid progenitor cells, one megakaryocyte progenitor cell and 16 MSCs ( Figure 7B ). In contrast, mouse-rat chimeras contained 565 cells from these cell types, including 285 erythroid progenitor cells, 80 megakaryocyte progenitor cells and 201 MSCs ( Figures 7B, C ). ESC-derived MSCs from mouse-rat chimeras exhibited a gene expression signature similar to previously identified MSCs signature (GSE132151) ( Supplementary Table SE12 ).
L47:Using scRNAseq UMAP analysis, BM MSCs were examined for the presence of typical BM MSC markers CD29, and CD105, and the absence of hematopoietic markers CD45 ( Figure 7D ), consistent with published studies ( Zhang et al., 2018 ). Heatmaps showed high similarity in gene expression signatures between erythroid progenitors, megakaryocyte progenitors and MSCs in mouse-rat and mouse-mouse chimeras ( Supplementary Figure SE17 ). Consistent with published studies ( Wolock et al., 2019 ), erythroid progenitor cells expressed  Plac8  and  Vim , megakaryocyte progenitor cells expressed  Pf4  and  Plek,  and BM MSCs expressed  Cpox ,  Blvrb ,  Ermap ,  Alad ,  Hspd1 ,  Glrx5  and  Nolc1  ( Supplementary Figure SE17 ). Interestingly, we did not detect epithelial progenitor cells among ESC-derived BM cells that were used for BM transplantation in irradiated mice, as demonstrated by the absence of cells expressing markers of pulmonary epithelial progenitors such as  Nkx2-1  and  Sftpc  (SPC) ( Supplementary Figure SE18 ).  Sftpb  (SPB), and  Ager  mRNA were also undetectable ( Supplementary Figure SE18 ). In summary, the bone marrow of mouse-rat chimeras provides a reservoir of mouse ESC-derived progenitor cells with regenerative capacity toward multiple respiratory cell lineages injured by γ-radiation.
L49:In this manuscript, we examined the lung regenerative potential of bone marrow from mouse-rat chimeras, the artificial animals generated by injection of rat blastocysts with mouse pluripotent embryonic stem cells ( Wen et al., 2022 ). Published studies demonstrate that BM from mouse-rat chimeras is capable of regenerating all hematopoietic cell lineages in the blood and bone marrow of lethally irradiated mice. While a multi-lineage engraftation by a single BM hematopoietic stem cell from normal BM has been demonstrated for the respiratory system ( Krause et al., 2001 ), HSC engraftment is inefficient and mostly occurs through a fusion of hematopoietic progenitor cells with lung-resident epithelial, endothelial and stromal cells, but not through direct differentiation of HSCs into respiratory cell lineages ( Wagers and Weissman, 2004 ). An important contribution of this study is that the bone marrow of mouse-rat chimeras contains progenitors of lung endothelial cells, fibroblasts and pericytes that are rare in normal mouse bone marrow. Although donor BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras contribute to lung epithelial cells including AT1, AT2 and club cell, based on immunostaining and flow cytometry of lung tissue, we were unable to find respiratory epithelial progenitors expressing  Nkx2-1  and  Sftpc  in the bone marrow of mouse-rat chimeras by scRNAseq. It is possible that the epithelial progenitors are ultra-rare and were not captured by our scRNAseq. Another possibility is that lung epithelial progenitors arise after interaction of donor BM cells with the lung tissue environment. Finally, GFP + epithelial cells can be a product of cell fusion between donor BM cells and lung-resident epithelial cells, consistent with published studies showing the fusion of BM cells with various resident cell types ( Wagers and Weissman, 2004 ).
L51:Published studies have shown that intravenous delivery of BM-derived endothelial progenitor cells attenuates lipopolysaccharide-induced lung injury and improves survival in rats ( Mao et al., 2010 ). Consistent with these studies, donor BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras contributed to the long-term regeneration of several endothelial cell types in the lung tissue, including gCAPs, aCAPs and venous cells. Since gCAP cells contain progenitors for all lung endothelial cell types ( Gillich et al., 2020 ), the expansion and differentiation of donor BM-derived gCAPs can explain significant numbers of donor-derived endothelial cells in recipient mice injured by γ-radiation. Our scRNAseq analysis of donor BM cells suggests that endothelial progenitor cells in mouse-rat bone marrow can be bipotential because they share a gene expression signature with yolk sac hemangioblasts which are known to differentiate into endothelial and hematopoietic cell lineages ( Huber et al., 2004 ). Our findings are consistent with previous studies showing that normal BM cells can contribute to lung endothelial cells in irradiated mice after BM transplantation ( Raoul et al., 2007 ). Although it is unclear why donor BM cells contribute to lung fibroblasts and pericytes, it is possible that mesenchymal stromal cells within donor BM cells could be their progenitors. BM MS differentiated into multiple mesenchymal lung lineages after lung injury ( Yamada et al., 2004 ). Our data demonstrate that ESC-derived BM cells generated in mouse-rat chimeras are capable of differentiating into many respiratory cell types within the lung-specific microenvironment after lethal γ-radiation.
L52:Although BM of mouse-rat chimeras develops from a mixture of mouse and rat cells, mouse BM cells from mouse-rat chimeras cannot be distinguished from normal mouse BM cells based on cellular composition of the bone marrow and gene expression signatures of BM cell types. One limitation of our studies is that the differentiation capacity of mouse-rat BM cells was established from whole BM transplants rather than transplantation of purified MSCs or BM hemangioblasts. Since the numbers of these cells are limited, these experiments are technically challenging and require the development of efficient purification methods to isolate these cells from mouse-rat chimeras. Future studies are needed to examine the transplantation of purified BM hemangioblasts and MSCs into irradiated mice and to investigate whether chimeric cells regenerate endothelial and mesenchymal cell types and improve outcomes after radiation injury.
L53:In summary, the bone marrow of mouse-rat chimeras is enriched with mouse hematopoietic progenitor cells, mesenchymal stromal cells and hemangioblasts-like cells that can differentiate into multiple respiratory cell lineages after whole-body irradiation. The bone marrow of interspecies chimeras represents an “ in vivo  reservoir” of ESC-derived lung progenitor cells. Our studies can be useful for future differentiation of patient-derived iPSCs in the bone marrow of large animals to generate patient-specific MSCs and hemangioblasts for lung regenerative medicine.
L55:Previously published Single cell RNA sequencing data from BMC of P10 Mouse-mouse chimera and Mouse-rat chimera that were reanalyzed here are available under accession code GSE184940. Single cell mRNA sequencing of stromal cell from mouse bone marrow (GSE132151) and the mouse Yolk Sac dataset generated by Pijuan-Sala et al. ( https://github.com/MarioniLab/EmbryoTimecourse2018 ) were used in this study.
L73:Balasubramaniam V. Mervis C. F. Maxey A. M. Markham N. E. Abman S. H.  ( 2007 ).  Hyperoxia reduces bone marrow, circulating, and lung endothelial progenitor cells in the developing lung: implications for the pathogenesis of bronchopulmonary dysplasia .  Am. J. Physiol. Lung Cell Mol. Physiol. 
L76:Bernard M. E. Kim H. Rajagopalan M. S. Stone B. Salimi U. Rwigema J. C.  ( 2012 ).  Repopulation of the irradiation damaged lung with bone marrow-derived cells .  Vivo 
L96:Dong Y. Poon G. F. T. Arif A. A. Lee-Sayer S. S. M. Dosanjh M. Johnson P.  ( 2018 ).  The survival of fetal and bone marrow monocyte-derived alveolar macrophages is promoted by CD44 and its interaction with hyaluronan .  Mucosal Immunol. 
L105:Hahn I. Klaus A. Maus R. Christman J. W. Welte T. Maus U. A.  ( 2011 ).  Dendritic cell depletion and repopulation in the lung after irradiation and bone marrow transplantation in mice .  Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 
L141:Krause D. S. Theise N. D. Collector M. I. Henegariu O. Hwang S. Gardner R.  ( 2001 ).  Multi-organ, multi-lineage engraftment by a single bone marrow-derived stem cell .  Cell 
L158:Mao M. Wang S. N. Lv X. J. Wang Y. Xu J. C.  ( 2010 ).  Intravenous delivery of bone marrow-derived endothelial progenitor cells improves survival and attenuates lipopolysaccharide-induced lung injury in rats .  Shock 
L191:Raoul W. Wagner-Ballon O. Saber G. Hulin A. Marcos E. Giraudier S.  ( 2007 ).  Effects of bone marrow-derived cells on monocrotaline- and hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension in mice .  Respir. Res. 
L239: In vivo  generation of bone marrow from embryonic stem cells in interspecies chimeras .  Elife 
L242:Wolock S. L. Krishnan I. Tenen D. E. Matkins V. Camacho V. Patel S.  ( 2019 ).  Mapping distinct bone marrow niche populations and their differentiation paths .  Cell Rep. 
L251:Yamada M. Kubo H. Kobayashi S. Ishizawa K. Numasaki M. Ueda S.  ( 2004 ).  Bone marrow-derived progenitor cells are important for lung repair after lipopolysaccharide-induced lung injury .  J. Immunol. 
L257:Zhang J. Shao Y. He D. Zhang L. Xu G. Shen J.  ( 2016 ).  Evidence that bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells reduce epithelial permeability following phosgene-induced acute lung injury via activation of wnt3a protein-induced canonical wnt/β-catenin signaling .  Inhal. Toxicol. 
L269:**The Bone Marrow of Mouse-Rat chimeras contains progenitors of multiple pulmonary**
L479:mouse-mouse (control) chimeras. Cells were obtained from the bone marrow of P10 chimeras.
[49ms]
