L1:Single-cell transcriptomics identifies the common perturbations of monocyte/macrophage lineage cells in inflammaging of bone marrow
L8:e Bone Marrow Transplantation Center of the First Affiliated Hospital & Liangzhu Laboratory, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310000, China
L10:Bone marrow inflammaging is a low-grade chronic inflammation that induces bone marrow aging. Multiple age-related and inflammatory diseases involve bone marrow inflammaging. Whether common pathological pathways exist in bone marrow inflammaging remains unclear.
L12:We collected bone marrow from telomerase-deficient mice (telomerase RNA component, TERC ko/ko ), 5 × FAD mice and  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt  mice and High-fat diet-fed mice (HFD), and lumbar 5 nerve compression mice. We performed scRNA-Seq analysis on bone marrow obtained from these mouse models to investigate the potential shared pathway of bone marrow inflammation.
L16:Our study demonstrates that monocyte/macrophage lineage stimulation is a key event in bone marrow inflammaging. We identified common differentially expressed genes and activated pathways in this lineage, suggesting potential targets for future interventions.
L18:Our study revealed shared genes and ligand-receptor pairs in the activated monocyte/macrophage lineage within inflammaging bone marrow. These findings offer potential therapeutic targets for cell-specific anti-inflammatory treatments.
L20:Bone marrow; Inflammaging; scRNA-Seq
L22:Inflammaging is a long-term, low-grade, sterile inflammation during aging [ 1 ]. Inflammaging primarily manifests as heightened levels of inflammation within aging organs, distinguished by cellular senescence, functional impairments and proportional discrepancies in immune cells, and modifications to the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) [ 2 ]. Inflammaging contributes to the pathogenesis of bone marrow-blood system aging-related diseases, as it disrupts the homeostasis of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) by affecting their differentiation potential and direction [ 2 ]. Specifically, inflammaging in the bone marrow microenvironment induces impaired HSC self-renewal [ 3 ] and the expansion of myeloid-biased progenitor cells at the expense of lymphoid progenitors [ 4 ]. This can lead to age-related disease of the bone marrow and blood system such as anemia [ 5 ], myelodysplasia and myeloproliferative disorders [ 6 ].
L23:Bone marrow homeostasis relies on maintaining a balance between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Nonetheless, within the inflammaging bone marrow, there is an increase in the expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and growth factors, including granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), interleukin (IL)-1, IL-3, IL-6, TNF-α, interferons, and Flt3 ligands [ 4 , 7 , 8 ]. This imbalance impacts on hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), leading to a bias towards myeloid differentiation [ 9 ]. The burgeoning myeloid cells within the inflammaging bone marrow consistently exhibit senescence phenotypes, which consequently compromise functionality of neutrophils, natural killer cells, monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells [ 10 ]. Senescent monocytes/macrophages exhibit an impaired capacity for the clearance of senescent cells and the defense against viral pathogens [ 2 , 11 ]. This impairment is attributed to a rise in the secretion of SASP components, including elevated levels of the pro-inflammatory molecules TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β, and a decreased production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Those disproportionate secretome emitted by aged myeloid cells promotes myeloid differentiation, thus maintaining a relentless cycle of inflammaging [ 9 ].
L24:Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) technologies reveal transcriptomic changes at the cellular resolution, which have greatly revolutionized transcriptomic studies over the past decade [ 12 ]. scRNA-Seq facilitates not only the elucidation of cellular atlases and cellular taxonomy but also the investigation of pseudotemporal and developmental trajectories [ 13 ]. Furthermore, it provides insights into the operational dynamics of cells, as well as intercellular interactions within tissues and organs [ 13 ]. These applications of scRNA-Seq contribute to an in-depth understanding of disease occurrence, development, and the identification of novel treatment targets [ 14 ]. The utilization of scRNA-Seq in the bone marrow-blood system has revealed key hallmarks of aging in various tissues and cell types [ 15 ], as well as the crucial role of immune cell activation in the aging process [ 16 ]. Thus, it provides valuable insights into the mechanisms underlying bone marrow-blood system aging research.
L25:To investigate the phenomenon of inflammaging within the bone marrow-blood system, we chose prevalent conditions that affect bone marrow homeostasis, including aging, Alzheimer's disease, osteoporosis, obesity, and compression of the Lumbar 5 nerve. A variety of mouse models have been used to explore potential shared pathways in the bone marrow among these diseases. Telomerase-deficient mice (telomerase RNA component, TERC ko/ko ) have been established for premature aging research and exhibit an inflammatory phenotype in the bone marrow [ 17 ]. 5 × FAD mice are a classical Alzheimer's disease model and exhibit inflammation in the bone marrow [ 18 ].  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt  mice, in which osteocytes are partially ablated, display senescence in bone marrow cells [ 19 ]. High-fat diet-fed mice (HFD) exhibit senescence and low-grade inflammation in bone mesenchymal stem cells [ 20 ]. Lumbar 5 nerve compression mice exhibit elevated inflammation levels in the bone marrow [ 21 ]. These models have gained recognition for studying specific diseases and exhibit consistent bone marrow inflammaging phenotype. However, the question of whether diverse diseases induce bone marrow inflammaging via shared molecular pathways remains unresolved.
L26:In this study, we integrated single-cell transcriptomic data from the disturbed bone marrow of various mouse models, including TERC ko/ko , 5 × FAD,  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt , HFD, Lumbar 5 nerve compression mice. We identified shared pathways involved in the activation of monocyte/macrophage lineage cells and their interactions with other cells during bone marrow inflammaging. The monocyte/macrophage lineage was activated via App-Cd74 axis in multiple aging and inflammatory mouse model. Increased expression of CD38 and Ly6a, along with decreased expression of Col1a and Lif in macrophages, represents a common change across different mouse models. The activated macrophages control B cell expansion via Cd52-Siglec-G axis. Macrophages mediate the recruitment and activation of lymphocytes through Ccl6-Ccr2 and Ccl9-Ccr1 ligand-receptor pairs, along with Fn1 and C3-related pathways. Interactions with mesenchymal cells is characterized by an enrichment of integrins (Itga4), Fn1, and adhesion molecules (Vcam1). Our comprehensive analysis deepens the comprehension of the molecular and cellular underpinnings of bone marrow inflammaging and provides potential therapeutic targets for the modulation of myeloid cell lineage dynamics in the context of bone marrow-blood system dysfunction.
L30:Bone marrow collection and preparation of a single cell suspension
L31:Mice were sacrificed, and femurs were collected. Bone marrow cells were isolated by flushing the long bones with PBS and then passing them through a 70 μm cell strainer. The samples were then incubated with red blood cell lysis buffer (FUSHENBIO, Cat. FS1143) for 10 min at 4 °C. Next, the lysis was stopped by adding an equal volume of PBS, and samples were centrifuged at 350 g for 5 min at 4 °C. Then, the supernatant was removed, and the samples were resuspended and incubated in DMEM supplemented with 20 % FBS on ice, in preparation for scRNA-Seq analysis.
L33:Bone marrow single-cell suspensions were prepared as described. Single cells were then loaded onto microfluidic devices (Chromium Single Cell 3′ Library Kit v3) according to the manufacturer's instructions. After reverse transcription in single-cell gel bead-in-emulsions (GEMs), cDNAs were amplified and purified. The concentrations of the final libraries were determined using Qubit (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Single-cell RNA-Seq libraries were sequenced using the NovaSeq 6000 (Illumina) with a read length of 150 bp paired-end reads (pair-end mode).
L37:Digital gene expression matrix of bone marrow samples from different mouse models was merged. Batch effects were removed using Harmony [ 26 ]. The function ‘NormalizeData’ was applied using the ‘LogNormalize’ method with a scale factor of 10,000 for 10 × Genomics data. Highly variable genes (the top 2,500) were identified using the function ‘FindVariableFeatures. Data scaling of UMI per cell and mitochondrial genes was regressed out using the “ScaleData” function. Principal component analysis (PCA) for dimensional reduction was performed using the Seurat function, and the top 20 PCs were retained based on the Jackstraw method. Clustering was performed using the 'FindClusters' function with a resolution of 1 and visualized using the ‘RunUMAP’ function with the parameter dims = 1:20. Cluster-specific marker genes were identified using the “FindAllMarkers” function with min.pct = 0.25 and logfc.threshold = 0.25. Merged clusters in bone marrow samples were identified using canonical markers from online databases and published literature for cell type annotation. Sub-clustering of the major myeloid cell clusters was performed using the same workflow.
L45:8-week-old male wild-type mice, 19-month-old male wild type mice, 8-week-old  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt , 8-week-old  DTA ki/wt  mice were sacrificed and the femurs were collected, respectively. After fixation in 4 % paraformaldehyde (PFA) for 48 h, femurs were decalcified with 10 % EDTA (pH = 7.2) at 4 °C for 1 week. Then, they were embedded in OCT for freezing and 10 μm-thick coronal sections were obtained. After washing the OCT compound with PBS, the femurs were permeabilized with 0.1 % Triton X-100 for 10 min. Blocking of the femurs was next performed using 3 % bovine serum albumin (BSA) (Sigma–Aldrich Cat. A7030)/PBS for 1 h. Next, samples were incubated with anti-F4/80 antibody (1:200, Abcam, Cat. ab6640), and an additional primary antibody overnight at 4 °C (Anti-Lif antibody, 1:200, Affinity Cat. DF13730; Anti-CD38 antibody, 1:200, Proteintech, Cat. 60006-1-Ig). After washing with PBS for 3 times, the samples were incubated with donkey anti-rat IgG (H + L) cross adsorbed secondary antibody Alexa Fluor 568 (1:200, Invitrogen, Cat. A78946), Donkey anti-Rabbit IgG (H + L) Highly Cross-Adsorbed Secondary Antibody, Alexa Fluor 488, (1:200, Invitrogen, Cat. A-21206), Donkey anti-Mouse IgG (H + L) Highly Cross-Adsorbed Secondary Antibody, Alexa Fluor 488, (1:200, Invitrogen, Cat. A-21202) for 2 h at room temperature followed by a 15-min incubation with DAPI. Samples were then mounted with the ProLong Diamond antifade medium and dried overnight before confocal imaging using Olympus SpinSR/FV3000.
L47:Integrative single-cell profiling of the mouse bone marrow
L48:To begin, we integrated scRNA-seq data from bone marrow samples derived from different mouse models, including TERC ko/ko , 5xFAD,  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt , HFD, and lumbar 5 nerve compression mice. Single-cell gene expression signatures of five mouse models were consolidated to pinpoint common cell types. Following pre-processing and filtering of low-quality cells, a total of 129,311 cells and 15,686 genes were retained for subsequent analysis. The median number of genes and transcripts per cell is 1,539 and 5,242, respectively.
L49:Figure 1 Integrative sing-cell transcriptome profiling of bone marrow in mouse model. a, UMAP visualization showing clustering of bone marrow cell types, distribution of mouse models (upper right) and distribution of condition (lower right). b, Cell proportions of major immune cell types and mesenchymal cells. c, Dot plot showing the representative markers of each cell type.
L50:We performed unsupervised clustering to identify the various hematopoietic cells using Seurat [ 25 ]. Uniform manifold approximation and projection for dimension reduction (UMAP) visualization revealed 26 major cell types, including six B cell clusters ( Jchain  positive plasma cells,  Ighd  positive naïve B cells,  Ebf1  positive immature B cells and  Cd19  positive B cells), four T cells clusters (expressing  Tcf7 ,  Klrk1 ,  Cd8a ), two neutrophils clusters (expressing  Ly6g ), three monocytes and macrophages clusters (expressing  Plac8 ,  Adgre1 ), one cluster of megakaryocytes (expressing  Pf4 ), conventional dendritic cells (cDCs, expressing  Irf8 ) and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs, expression  Siglech ), granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (GMPs, expressing  Plac8 ,  Kit ) and hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs, expression  Cd34 ) ( Fig. 1 a). Cycling cells were labeled by highly expression of  Mki67.  Furthermore, we used  Mgp  and collagen as distinguishing marker genes to identify a specific cluster of mesenchymal cells within the bone marrow niche environment. Notably, characteristic markers pertaining to each cell type were also discerned ( Fig. 1 c). Figure 1 Integrative sing-cell transcriptome profiling of bone marrow in mouse model. a, UMAP visualization showing clustering of bone marrow cell types, distribution of mouse models (upper right) and distribution of condition (lower right). b, Cell proportions of major immune cell types and mesenchymal cells. c, Dot plot showing the representative markers of each cell type. Figure 1
L55:We then used Metascape [ 27 ] to analyze the functions of the up-regulated and down-regulated DEGs. The GO enrichment analysis of the DEGs in varying mouse models revealed a significant overlap of common DEGs between TERC ko/ko ,  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt , and the compression group ( SFig. 2d ). The most significantly enriched biological process terms among the up-regulated DEGs across various models were the leukocyte migration, cytokine-mediated signaling pathway, inflammatory response, regulation of cell activation, and osteoclast differentiation ( Fig. 2 a,  SFig. 3a ). Upregulation of mononuclear cell differentiation was restricted to HFD condition. TERC,  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt  and compression model shared a series of up-regulated terms in immune activation and inflammatory response. We also observed enrichment in the reactive oxygen species metabolic process and myeloid cell differentiation ( SFig. 3c ). Conversely, the most enriched biological process terms among the down-regulated DEGs were transcription factor binding, RNA biogenesis and metabolism, and regulation of cell cycle process ( Fig. 2 b,  SFig. 3b, d ). These gene function perturbation events were correlated with the hallmarks of aging [ 30 ]. The top 10 upregulated genes include Wfdc17, Trem3, Cd177, Tspo, IFitm6, Lrg1, Hp, Ncf4, Clec4a2, Spi1, and Ostf1 ( Table 1 ), while the top 10 downregulated genes are Gimap1, Cd2, Npm1, Mtss1, Ms4a1, Pax5, Thbs1, Ptp4a3, Ly6e, Rps26, and Ptma ( Table 1 ). To explore the association of these genes, we performed GO analysis ( SFig. 4a and b ). The results showed that the top 10 commonly upregulated genes are involved in innate immune response, defense response to bacterium, neutrophil degranulation, and regulation of secretion by cells, suggesting an activation of the myeloid immune system in the bone marrow ( SFig. 4a ). Conversely, the top 10 downregulated genes are primarily associated with lymphocyte activation ( SFig. 4b ). Overall, our findings reveal upregulation of myeloid-related genes and inhibition of lymphocyte activation. Immunosenescence is characterized by a decrease in both innate and adaptive cell-mediated immune functions [ 5 ]. Senescence-related inflammation and metabolic dysregulation greatly contribute to the aging-associated phenotypes in these models [ 31 ]. It has also been reported that the overproduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the aging bone marrow niche promotes myeloid increase [ 32 ]. In this case, we further focused on the gene function changes of myeloid cell types. Figure 2 GO enrichment analysis of common differentially expressed genes. Gene ontology network showing the biological process of common up-regulated genes (a) and down-regulated genes (b) across different mouse models. Significant terms are highlighted in red. Pie chart of each gene module indicated the distribution of differentially expressed genes in each model. The thickness of the connections between nodes signifies the degree of similarity between different GO terms. Figure 2 Table 1 Top 10 commonly up-regulated and down-regulated genes. Table 1 Up-regulated Down-regulated Wfdc17, Trem3, Cd177, Tspo, IFitm6, Lrg1, Hp, Ncf4, Clec4a2, Spi1, Ostf1 Gimap1, Cd2, Npm1, Mtss1, Ms4a1, Pax5, Thbs1, Ptp4a3, Ly6e, Rps26, Ptma
L56:Heterogeneity of monocytes, macrophages in bone marrow
L58:Figure 3 Gene expression perturbations in monocytes lineage. a, Pseudotime trajectory analysis of differentiation branch of GMPs, monocytes and macrophages. b, Volcano plot showing the differentially expressed genes in GMPs, monocytes, M2 macrophages and macrophages (p < 0.05, log2FC > 0.25). c-f, Confocal images (c and e) and fluorescence intensities quantitation (d and f) show increased expressions of CD38 in F4/80 +  cells and decreased expression of LIF in F4/80 +  cells in aged and Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt  mice bone marrow (n = 3 biologically independent samples. Data were quantified from three mice, and four different views per mouse were captured for the quantification). Data were presented as the means ± SEMs; Significance was calculated using unpaired t test with two-tailed P value (g, h, i).
L60: Col1a1 ,  and  Lif  ( Fig. 3 b). Among the up-regulated genes, activation of  Cd38 -positive M1-like macrophages demonstrated enhanced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-consuming enzyme,  Cd38 -dependent NADase activity [ 38 ]. Inflammatory cytokines secreted by senescent cells instigate the expression of  Cd38  in macrophages. Intriguingly, the expression of  Cd38  emerges as another unique characteristic of murine M1 macrophages [ 39 ]. Thus, age-related intracellular  NAD  + levels are reduced in a CD38-dependent manner through activated macrophages [ 40 ]. Under pathological conditions, the expression level of  Ly6a  in macrophages was upregulated, suggesting the presence of a potentially inflammatory bone marrow environment in these mouse models [ 41 ]. We then performed immunofluorescence staining and quantitative confocal imaging ( Fig. 3 c–f,  SFig. 5a ). The results demonstrated the increased production of CD38 in F4/80 +  cells, and decreased expression of LIF in F4/80 +  cells in bone marrow of aged (18-month-old mice) and  Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt  mice ( Fig. 3 c–f). Figure 3 Gene expression perturbations in monocytes lineage. a, Pseudotime trajectory analysis of differentiation branch of GMPs, monocytes and macrophages. b, Volcano plot showing the differentially expressed genes in GMPs, monocytes, M2 macrophages and macrophages (p < 0.05, log2FC > 0.25). c-f, Confocal images (c and e) and fluorescence intensities quantitation (d and f) show increased expressions of CD38 in F4/80 +  cells and decreased expression of LIF in F4/80 +  cells in aged and Dmp1 Cre -DTA ki/wt  mice bone marrow (n = 3 biologically independent samples. Data were quantified from three mice, and four different views per mouse were captured for the quantification). Data were presented as the means ± SEMs; Significance was calculated using unpaired t test with two-tailed P value (g, h, i). Figure 3
L68:Inflammaging is a state in which the immune system remains in a chronically activated state during aging and is characterized by elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in organs [ 49 , 50 ]. Although acute inflammation is beneficial during injury or infection for protection and tissue restoration [ 51 ], chronic inflammation, even at low levels, increases the risk of chronic diseases, mortality, and disorders in immune, hematopoietic, and musculoskeletal systems [ 52 ]. Therefore, resolving chronic inflammation is crucial for health. A strategy targeting specific immune cells involved in inflammation is important. However, the key immune cells in bone marrow inflammaging remain unidentified. Our study represents an important step towards the identification of these cells and could assist the development of targeted therapeutic interventions. We integrated scRNA-Seq datasets from aging and inflammation-related mouse models, and analyzed the common pathological processes involved in inflammaging within the bone marrow microenvironment. Our findings indicate that the activation of myeloid cells is a key driver of inflammaging across multiple mouse models. The suite of changes that reflect the activation of cells within the monocyte/macrophage lineage serves as a typical pathological process in the inflammaging of the bone marrow. Furthermore, we examined the changes in monocyte-macrophage lineage differentiation and cell–cell interactions across multiple models [ 49 ].
L69:Natural aging is a normal physiological process that occurs with the passage of time [ 53 ], while inflammaging is a pathological state driven by chronic low-grade inflammation [ 53 , 54 ]. Although natural aging also involves in elevated inflammation level [ 55 ], the immune function in natural aging is declined [ 56 , 57 ]. Our findings consist with previous research. We observed that immune activation alongside inflammatory responses were seen in all mouse models that disrupt bone marrow homeostasis. Indeed, these mouse models were not specific bone marrow inflammaging, and further studies could establish an originally induced bone marrow inflammaging model, which would eliminate the indirect influences exerted on the bone marrow by other organs.
L71:Activated monocyte/macrophage lineages interact with lymphocytes through the CCL6-CCR2 and CCL9-CCR1 ligand-receptor interactions, both of which are involved in lymphocyte recruitment. Specifically, CCL6, expressed by macrophages in mice, is present in various chronic inflammatory disorders and acts as a monocyte chemoattractant in murine acute peritonitis. CCR2 on lymphocytes facilitates their recruitment [ 60 ]. Our findings indicate that CCL6 secreted by monocytes/macrophages binds to CCR2 on lymphocytes, promoting their recruitment. Similarly, the interaction between CCL9 and CCR1 is also reported to recruit lymphocytes [ 61 ]. Moreover, activated monocyte/macrophage lineages communicate with other myeloid cells via the App-Cd74 interaction. CD74 is a marker for prognostic assessment and M1 macrophage infiltration [ 62 ], while amyloid precursor protein (APP) is associated with Alzheimer's disease. The APP-CD74 interaction in brain macrophages suppresses Aβ production [ 63 ]; however, its role between monocyte/macrophage lineages in bone marrow remains poorly understood. Future research should focus on elucidating the function of the APP-CD74 interaction within the context of bone marrow inflammaging.
L72:Anti-inflammatory cytokines hold potential as a therapeutic strategy for managing inflammaging diseases. Notably, metformin has been observed to decrease the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, induce a shift in macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype, and alleviate non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a chronic low-grade inflammation affecting the liver [ 64 ]. Similarly, aspirin has demonstrated the ability to reduce TNF-α expression in macrophages through modulation of the IκK/IκB/NF-κB pathway and a COX2/PGE2/EP2/NF-κB feedback loop, thereby attenuating bone regeneration [ 65 ]. Our investigation has uncovered shared differentially expressed genes within monocytes/macrophages in the context of bone marrow inflammaging. This discovery highlights potential molecular targets for clinical interventions in diseases associated with aging and inflammation within the bone marrow-blood system.
L73:Our study has limitations. Further experimental validation is required to validate the roles of the monocyte/macrophage lineage and their key genes in the process of bone marrow inflammaging. For instance, we found that the activation of CD38/Ly6a and down-regulation of Lif/Col1a in the monocyte/macrophage lineage was exhibited in all mouse models. To delineate the specific contributions of these genes, it will be necessary to employ targeted protein inhibitors or gene knockout mouse models. Similarly, the influence of ligand-receptor interactions between activated monocyte/macrophage lineage and lymphocytes, other myeloid cells, and mesenchymal cells can be further investigated by in vitro co-culture experiments along with ligand/receptor blockage.
L75:In summary, our data provide new insights into the role of monocyte/macrophage lineage cells in the inflammaging of the bone marrow-blood system. Additionally, we have uncovered divergent gene expressions and their consequential interplay with other cells. This discovery potential therapeutic targets, thereby offering prospective avenues for the clinical management of diseases affecting the bone marrow-blood system.
L89:BSA Bovine serum albumin DEGs Differentially expressed genes G-CSF Granulocyte colony stimulating factor GMCSF Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor HSC Hematopoietic stem cells IL: Interleukin M-CSF Macrophage colony-stimulating factor Mt-high High mitochondrial gene expression SASP Senescence associated secretory phenotype scRNA-Seq Single cell RNA-Sequencing UMAP Uniform manifold approximation and projection for dimension reduction
L95:Supplementary figure. 5 a, Immunofluorescence staining of F4/80 and negative control in bone marrow from a 6-week-old wild-type mouse.
L98:The following are the Supplementary data to this article: Supplementary figure.1 a, UMAP plot (up) and bar plot (down) showing the distribution of cells from young and aging mice. b, Cell proportions of major immune cell types and mesenchymal cells between different models (left) and conditions (right). Supplementary figure.1 Supplementary figure.2 a, Workflow to calculate the “Total DEGs” and intervention-specific “DEGs”. b, Vennplot showing the overlap of DEGs between ‘total DEGs’ and each model specific DEGs. c, Bar plots showing the number (left) and ratio (right) of common DEGs, unique DEGs in Total DEGs and unique DEGs in specific model. c, Bar plots showing the number (left) and ratio (right) of common DEGs, unique DEGs in Total DEGs and unique DEGs in specific type of cells. d, Circos plot showing the overlap of differentially expressed genes in different models. Supplementary figure.2 Supplementary Fig. 3 a, b Significance level of different GO terms among up-regulated (a) and down-regulated (b) genes, p value is color coded. c, d Heatmap of significant GO terms among up-regulated genes (c) and down-regulated genes (d) across different models. Supplementary Fig. 3 Supplementary Figure 4 GO enrichment analysis of Top 10 commonly up-regulated (a) and down-regulated (b) genes. Supplementary Figure 4 Supplementary figure. 5 a, Immunofluorescence staining of F4/80 and negative control in bone marrow from a 6-week-old wild-type mouse. Supplementary figure. 5 Supplementary figure.6 a, UMAP plot showing the pseudotime of all cells in all perturbed (left) and all controls (right). b, UMAP plot showing the original clustering results of myeloid cell subsets. Distribution of models (middle) and condition (right) shows certain batch effects. Supplementary figure.6 Supplementary figure.7 a, Dot plot showing the significant ligand-receptor pairs in “vs myeloid” group, communication probability is color coded. b, Cell–cell interaction network of ligand-receptor pairs in “vs mesenchymal” group. c, Dot plot showing the significant ligand-receptor pairs in “vs mesenchymal” group, communication probability is color coded. Supplementary figure.7
L103:5 Pritz T. Weinberger B. Grubeck-Loebenstein B. The aging bone marrow and its impact on immune responses in old age Immunol Lett 162 2014 310 315 25014741
L107:9 Ravalet N. Guermouche H. Hirsch P. Picou F. Foucault A. Gallay N. Modulation of bone marrow and peripheral blood cytokine levels by age and clonal hematopoiesis in healthy individuals Clin Immunol 255 2023 109730
L115:17 Yang C. Pang Y. Huang Y. Ye F. Chen X. Gao Y. Single-cell transcriptomics identifies premature aging features of TERC-deficient mouse brain and bone marrow Geroscience 44 2022 2139 2155 35545739
L116:18 Dvir-Szternfeld R. Castellani G. Arad M. Cahalon L. Colaiuta S.P. Keren-Shaul H. Alzheimer's disease modification mediated by bone marrow-derived macrophages via a TREM2-independent pathway in mouse model of amyloidosis Nat Aging 2 2022 60 73 37118355
L117:19 Ding P. Gao C. Gao Y. Liu D. Li H. Xu J. Osteocytes regulate senescence of bone and bone marrow Elife 11 2022
L130:32 Ho Y.H. Del Toro R. Rivera-Torres J. Rak J. Korn C. Garcia-Garcia A. Remodeling of bone marrow hematopoietic stem cell niches promotes myeloid cell expansion during premature or physiological aging Cell Stem Cell 25 2019 407 418 e406 31303548
L146:48 Mitroulis I. Kalafati L. Bornhauser M. Hajishengallis G. Chavakis T. Regulation of the bone marrow niche by inflammation Front Immunol 11 2020 1540 32849521
[72ms]
