L9:Legg–Calvé–Perthes disease is a juvenile ischemic osteonecrosis (ON) of the femoral head. A disruption of blood supply to the femoral head produces extensive cell death and necrotic debris. Macrophages are innate immune cells recruited to the necrotic bone to orchestrate the repair process. However, the role macrophages play in the ON repair process is still not elucidated. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of artificial necrotic bone fluid (NBF) on porcine peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)-derived macrophages. Monocytes were positively selected by CD14 MicroBeads from pig PBMCs. After maturation, cells were treated with no stimulant (Con), LPS + IFNγ (M1), IL4 + IL13 (M2), or NBF. All culture supernatants and cells were harvested for ELISA, Western blot, FACS, RT-qPCR and bulk RNAseq. The Western blot and ELISA showed that only the M1 condition elevated the protein level of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The FACS results indicated that percentage of CD8086+ (M1 marker) cells was significantly lower in the M2 vs. other conditions, whereas the relative median fluorescence intensity of CD8086 was significantly higher in the M1 vs. other conditions. The NBF did not show any significant change compared to the Con. mRNA analysis showed significantly increased IL1β and IL8 expression in the M1 vs. Con scenario. TNFα expression was significantly decreased in the M2 vs. Con scenario. Interestingly, the NBF did not induce pro-inflammatory gene expression. For bulk RNAseq, the Gene Set Enrichment Analyses of the M1-stimulated cells revealed the enrichment of pro-inflammatory gene sets. For the M2, most of the enriched categories were related to the down-regulation of inflammation. For the NBF, the most enriched categories were related to the down-regulation of protein translation and mitochondrial metabolism. We further confirmed the suppressive effects of NBF on macrophage functions using Seahorse Cell Mito Stress Tests,  13 C-glucose metabolic flux analysis, mitochondrial ROS detection via MitoSOX TM  staining, and phagocytosis assay. Taken together, these results revealed that the artificial NBF down-regulates the overall cellular activity and energy metabolism of macrophages.
L13:Legg–Calvé–Perthes disease (LCPD) is a juvenile ischemic osteonecrosis (ON) of the femoral head [ 1 , 2 ]. Chronic inflammation is a consistent pathological feature of LCPD patients, which impairs bone healing and regeneration [ 3 , 4 ]. A disruption of blood supply to the femoral head severely restricts the supply of oxygen and nutrients, which produces extensive cell death and the abundance of necrotic cell debris in the bone marrow space and the trabecular bone. The dying cells and necrotic debris leave damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) in the necrotic bone microenvironment and impair bone healing [ 5 , 6 ]. We observed that DAMPs in the necrotic bone fluid (NBF) significantly inhibited osteoblast differentiation and stimulated the fibroblast differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) [ 7 ].
L16:The coordinated activity of M1 and M2 macrophages is crucial for proper bone healing following injury [ 19 ]. M1 macrophages dominate the early phase by initiating inflammation and recruiting additional immune cells and MSCs through pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-1β [ 19 , 20 ]. This pro-inflammatory phase is followed by a phenotypic shift toward M2 macrophages, which resolve inflammation, secrete tissue-repair cytokines like IL-10 and TGF-β, and stimulate osteogenesis and angiogenesis [ 20 , 21 ]. M2 macrophages actively promote bone repair through phagocytosis of apoptotic and necrotic cells, a process essential for resolving inflammation and enabling regenerative signaling in bone marrow environments [ 8 , 22 , 23 ]. Impaired M2 phagocytic activity within necrotic bone marrow, as seen in osteonecrosis, may thus delay healing and promote chronic inflammation [ 18 ]. A balanced M1/M2 transition is therefore essential for effective resolution of inflammation and bone regeneration. However, disruption of this balance—such as sustained M1 activation or impaired M2 polarization—can contribute to pathological outcomes. In ischemic osteonecrosis, prolonged M1-like responses and insufficient M2-mediated repair mechanisms may perpetuate chronic inflammation, delay healing, and exacerbate bone degeneration [ 18 ].
L18:Previous immunohistochemical studies of necrotic femoral heads from both human and pig demonstrate macrophage infiltration in the necrotic bone marrow and surrounding synovium [ 6 , 28 , 29 , 30 ]. However, more in-depth analysis of the effects of necrotic bone microenvironment on macrophage phenotype and response have not been performed. Since the porcine model of ischemic ON of the femoral head is a well-established model of LCPD and shows similar histologic and radiographic features to the human disease [ 31 ], we isolated and cultured porcine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to investigate the effects of NBF on macrophage phenotype. The purpose of this study was to obtain transcriptomic characterization of porcine PBMC-derived macrophages cultured with NBF. We used artificially created NBF, as described previously [ 7 ], and M1- and M2-stimulated macrophages served as pro- and anti-inflammatory references. We hypothesized that NBF will produce pro-inflammatory response from porcine macrophages.
L21:The animal protocol was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (UTSW). A total of 8 Yorkshire male pigs were used. The whole blood from 5 pigs were used for ELISA, Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), RNA analyses, and metabolic flux analyses and from 3 pigs for the Seahorse Cell Mito Stress Test to evaluate macrophage metabolic activity and cell fluorescence staining. All blood was collected in blood collection bags with heparin as anti-coagulant. Artificial NBF was produced from normal pig distal femoral epiphyseal bone, as pre-viously described [ 7 ], and stored in −80 °C until use.
L23:Ficoll-Paque PLUS density gradient media (Cytiva, Marlborough, MA, USA) was used to isolate PBMCs from the whole blood. The “buffy layer” was collected after the gradient centrifugation [ 32 ]. After washed three times by phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA), monocytes were positively selected by human CD14 MicroBeads (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany) using magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) method. More than 96% of CD14+ cells were confirmed by FACS analysis (CD14 antibody: BioRad, Hercules, CA, USA) after the MACS selection ( Figure S1A ). CD14+ monocytes were seeded into 6-well Petri dishes as 5 × 10 6  cell/well, and cultured in RPMI 1640 medium (Thermo Fisher Scientific) containing 1% porcine serum (PS) (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and 1% Penicillin/Streptomycin (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The plates were pre-coated with PS in 37 °C incubator for at least one hour. After 4 days of culture in 37 °C incubator for macrophage differentiation and maturation, cells were differentiated from monocyte to macrophages as most cells were firmly attached to the cell culture plate. Cells were then treated with no stimulant (Control, Con), M1 stimulants (LPS 100 ng/mL+ IFNγ 20 ng/mL), M2 stimulants (IL4 20 ng/mL + IL13 20 ng/mL), or artificial NBF (100 µg/mL). The artificial NBF was produced following the previous protocol [ 7 ]. Briefly, distal femurs were collected from piglets immediately after euthanasia under sterile conditions. After removing the articular cartilage and growth plate, the bony epiphyses were subjected to five freeze–thaw cycles (liquid nitrogen for 3 min, then 37 °C water bath for 30 min). The bones were cut into ~5 mm 3  pieces and washed with saline (2:1, saline:bone,  v / w ). After 5 min incubation and 1 min vertexing, the mixture was filtered through a 40 μm strainer (Corning, Corning, NY, USA), centrifuged at 1500 rpm for 10 min, and the supernatant was sterilized using a 0.22 μm Millex filter (Millipore, Burlington, MA, USA). The final NBF was stored at −80 °C until use. All cells were harvested 24 h after the stimulation for flow cytometry (FACS), and RNA isolation. The cell culture medium supernatants were also collected, aliquoted, and froze in −80 °C for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA).
L64:Understanding the impact of NBF on macrophages is crucial to elucidating the early inflammatory and immune responses within the necrotic femoral head. In this study, we discovered that artificial NBF did not polarize PBMC-derived macrophages into the pro-inflammatory phenotype as we hypothesized. Instead, NBF exerted a significant inhibitory effect on macrophage energy metabolism and cellular function. As expected, the M1 stimulants (LPS + IFNγ) acted as pro-inflammatory inducers producing significantly elevated pro-inflammatory markers at both protein and mRNA levels compared to the other conditions ( Figure 1 ,  Figure 2  and  Figure 4 A–C). However, the M2 stimulants (IL4 + IL13) did not trigger elevated expressions of anti-inflammatory genes and proteins, as expected, but only suppressed the expression of TNFα gene expression and pro-inflammatory surface marker CD8086 ( Figure 2 ,  Figure 3  and  Figure 4 C). The GESA analyses further supported these observations. For M1-stimulated macrophages, most of the top enriched categories were pro-inflammatory related gene sets, such as up-regulated responses to multiple types of interferon, chemokine, and molecules of bacterial origin ( Figure 6 A and  Figure S5A,B ). The M1-stimulated macrophage transcriptomic profile was consistent with the transcriptomic profile of the M1-induced porcine bone marrow derived macrophages reported by Li et al. [ 44 ]. For M2-stimulated macrophages, most of the enriched categories were related to the down-regulation of inflammation, such as reduced responses to humoral immunity, neutrophil-mediated immunity, and granulocyte activation ( Figure 6 B and  Figure S5C,D ).
L65:Interestingly, our results strongly indicate the negative effects of NBF on overall cellular activities and energy metabolism. For the NBF condition, the top enriched categories were related to down-regulation of protein translation and mitochondrial metabolism, revealing overall down-regulation of cellular activity and energy metabolism of the cells treated with NBF ( Figure 6 C and  Figure S5E,F ). It is possible that some components in the NBF inhibit the metabolic pathways for both oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis. For example, representative DAMP HMGB1 was reported to inhibit oxidative phosphorylation of colorectal cancer cells [ 45 ]. In addition, endogenous DAMPs oxidized phospholipids could suppress both mitochondrial respiration and aerobic glycolysis of mouse macrophages [ 46 ]. These results may be important for explaining impaired repair processes seen in older children and adults with femoral head osteonecrosis where healing is very slow and incomplete. In fact, most patients show a lack of healing of the necrotic region of the femoral head and subsequent collapse of the necrotic region leading to osteoarthritis. Since NBF suppressed overall cellular activities and energy metabolism of macrophages, it may explain the slow and incomplete repair process of clearing necrotic debris and healing of the necrotic bone environment.
L66:Immunometabolism has become a popular topic in recent years since more and more findings were discovered that intracellular metabolic pathways are involved in the regulation of immune cells [ 47 ]. The polarization and activation of macrophages are closely linked to the changes in cells’ energy production and metabolism [ 48 ]. On the other hand, macrophages’ metabolism also adapts the cells’ differentiation and activation to fulfill their pro- or anti- inflammatory functions [ 49 ]. Therefore, elucidating the metabolic change in macrophages will help to define the directions of cells’ differentiation and functions. However, the studies on cell energy metabolism of porcine macrophage or in the context of femoral head osteonecrosis are very limited. Many studies on chronic inflammation using mouse models found that pro-inflammatory macrophages had low OCR but high ECAR, which indicated reduced oxidative phosphorylation but enhanced glycolysis [ 24 , 50 , 51 ]. Nevertheless, Vijayan et al. reported that the metabolic responses to LPS are different between human and murine macrophages [ 52 ]. In addition, similar to our findings in porcine, human monocyte-derived macrophages showed elevated both mitochondrial respiration and glycolysis activity and capacity under GM-CSF induced pro-inflammatory condition compared to M-CSF induced anti-inflammatory condition [ 53 ].
L70:In conclusion, this study represents the first of its kind, seeking to determine the transcriptomic and functional responses of porcine macrophages culture using the artificial NBF. In contrast to our initial hypothesis, the NBF-stimulated macrophages did not show the expected pro-inflammatory phenotype. Instead, there was overall down-regulation of cellular activity and energy metabolism. This suggests that the macrophage activity and function in the necrotic femoral head may be impaired in the necrotic bone microenvironment. Additional studies are planned to confirm macrophage phenotype and activity using the porcine model of ischemic osteonecrosis in vivo, since the gene expression profile might be different compared to in vitro expression [ 56 ]. These findings highlight a previously unrecognized mechanism by which necrotic bone microenvironments may suppress innate immune function and impede the resolution of inflammation in ischemic osteonecrosis. Further studies are needed to confirm macrophage activity in response to the non-soluble necrotic bone particle and explore the responses of other types of immune cells in the necrotic bone environment.
L119: Minimally Invasive Necrotic Bone Washing Improves Bone Healing After Femoral Head Ischemic Osteonecrosis: An Experimental Investigation in Immature Pigs J. Bone Jt. Surg. Am. 2021 103 1193 1202 10.2106/JBJS.20.00578
L124: Damage associated molecular patterns in necrotic femoral head inhibit osteogenesis and promote fibrogenesis of mesenchymal stem cells Bone 2022 154 116215 10.1016/j.bone.2021.116215 34571205
L170: Comparative phenotypic and functional analyses of the effects of autologous plasma and recombinant human macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) on porcine monocyte to macrophage differentiation Vet. Immunol. Immunopathol. 2017 187 80 88 10.1016/j.vetimm.2017.04.006 28494933
L197: The Dynamic Feature of Macrophage M1/M2 Imbalance Facilitates the Progression of Non-Traumatic Osteonecrosis of the Femoral Head Front. Bioeng. Biotechnol. 2022 10 912133 10.3389/fbioe.2022.912133 35573242
L280: Anti-Interleukin-6 Therapy Decreases Hip Synovitis and Bone Resorption and Increases Bone Formation Following Ischemic Osteonecrosis of the Femoral Head J. Bone Miner. Res. 2021 36 357 368 10.1002/jbmr.4191 33053220
L292: Histopathological and immunohistochemical aspects of bone tissue in aseptic necrosis of the femoral head Rom. J. Morphol. Embryol. 2020 61 1249 1258 10.47162/RJME.61.4.26 34171073
L300: A new and efficient culture method for porcine bone marrow-derived M1- and M2-polarized macrophages Vet. Immunol. Immunopathol. 2018 200 7 15 10.1016/j.vetimm.2018.04.002 29776615
[34ms]
