L1:Development of the PD9-9 Monoclonal Antibody for Identifying Porcine Bone Marrow-Derived Dendritic Cells
L7:The purpose of this study was to develop a monoclonal antibody (mAb) that can identify porcine dendritic cells (DCs) that have differentiated from bone marrow progenitor cells. Hybridoma technology was used to obtain mAbs, and bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) were employed as immunogens for producing antibodies. The generated PD9-9 mAbs exhibited considerable reactivity towards porcine BMDCs with applications in flow cytometry and immunostaining. The antibody was composed of heavy immunoglobulin gamma-1 chains and light kappa chains. The PD9-9 mAb recognized fully differentiated porcine BMDCs and cells undergoing DC differentiation. In contrast, bone marrow cells and macrophages were not recognized by PD9-9. In addition, the PD9-9 mAb promoted porcine DC proliferation. Consequently, the PD9-9 mAb may be a biomarker for porcine DCs and will be advantageous for investigating porcine DC biology.
L9:porcine dendritic cells; bone marrow-derived dendritic cells; monoclonal antibody
L12:DCs in mice and humans exhibit a notable level of CD11c expression; thus, CD11c is frequently used as a DC identification marker [ 14 , 21 , 22 ]. However, because porcine CD11c is also strongly expressed in monocytes and macrophages, it cannot be used as a marker to distinguish porcine DCs from other cell types [ 23 ]. In contrast, the Flt3 ligand, which is essential for DC development, can be a reliable porcine DC marker [ 24 ]. Flt3 was abundantly expressed in DC precursors and bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) differentiated via Flt3 ligand stimulation, whereas it was undetectable in monocyte-derived DCs or BMDCs differentiated via GM-CSF supplementation [ 25 ]. Therefore, evaluating the expression of surface markers, such as MHC II, CD1, CD172a, and CD16, is essential to distinguish GM-CSF–BMDCs from bone marrow precursor cells or macrophages [ 26 , 27 ]. Porcine DC-pathogen interactions have been extensively studied using DCs differentiated in vitro from bone marrow cells (BMCs) using the granulocyte–macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) [ 28 ]. Therefore, this study aimed to develop monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) capable of identifying porcine BMDCs differentiated using the GM-CSF.
L17:BMCs were isolated from the humerus, tibia, and femur of stillborn piglets to induce the differentiation of BMCs into DCs. BMDCs were generated as previously described [ 30 ]. Non-adherent cells were used for immunization and hybridoma screening.
L38:DCs migrate to lymphoid organs, where they present antigens to T cells [ 36 , 37 ]. DCs play a crucial role in priming naïve T cells, thereby initiating an adaptive immune response [ 38 , 39 ]. Thus, DCs are an essential bridge between innate and adaptive immunity during pathogen infection [ 40 , 41 ]. The capacity of DCs to induce antigen-specific immune responses has been employed to develop cell therapy technologies [ 42 , 43 ]. This study developed a mAb specific to porcine DCs, thereby contributing to the advancement of knowledge regarding the biology of porcine DCs. In most studies investigating DCs, monocytes or BMCs were cultured with GM-CSF, with or without IL-4, to induce DC differentiation in vitro. In this study, one of the developed mAbs exhibited remarkable reactivity towards porcine DCs and was designated PD9-9. The PD9-9 mAb application included flow cytometry and immunostaining. Moreover, the mAbs exhibited no reactivity towards porcine macrophages. Distinguishing DCs from macrophages has proven challenging because of the similarity of their properties [ 44 , 45 ]. Hence, the PD9-9 mAb may be a useful tool for distinguishing porcine DCs from macrophages.
L39:Before differentiation, the PD9-9 antibody did not recognize BMCs; however, it exhibited cell reactivity on day 6 after inducing DC differentiation. In addition to being applicable to fully differentiated porcine DCs, the PD9-9 antibody could identify DCs in the process of differentiation. In a previous study, porcine BMDCs were differentiated with GM-CSF on day 10 to distinguish between immature (MHCII low ) and mature (MHCII high ) DCs based on differential MHC II expression [ 30 ]. MHCII high  and MHCII low  cells were both possessed the capacity to prime T cells, a signature function of DCs. All BMDCs, including immature DCs with low MHCII expression, were identified by PD9-9 on day 10. PD9-9 was also capable of identifying immature DCs that emerged on day 6 and were characterized by MHCII low  cells. Because PD9-9 mAbs recognized immature and mature BMDCs, they can be used as a biomarker for porcine BMDCs and in the study of DC ontogeny.
L40:Antibodies are essential components of the immune system that function by circulating within the bloodstream and identifying exogenous substances [ 46 , 47 ]. The emergence of hybridoma technology, which enables manufacturing mAbs, has driven biotechnology forwards [ 48 , 49 ]. This study generated PD9-9 mAb against porcine BMDCs differentiated with GM-CSF using hybridoma technology. PD9-9 mAbs could identify porcine DCs that had completed differentiation and cells in the process of DC differentiation but were inactive against bone marrow progenitor cells. Antibodies generated using hybridoma technology may possess functionalities in addition to antigen recognition [ 50 ]. PD9-9 also has the ability to promote cell proliferation in porcine BMDCs when it is administered. Considering the broad roles of DC in immunobiology, the ability of PD9-9 to promote DC proliferation could potentially serve a therapeutic purpose. The immunocytochemistry results indicate that the PD9-9 mAb reactivates the protein that are located on the surface of BMDCs. Hence, it is probable that the antigen corresponds to one of the cell surface proteins present on porcine DCs. The epitope is the specific region of the antigen that the antibody recognizes, and it can be complex for proteinaceous antigen [ 51 ]. The binding epitope of an antibody can offer significant mechanistic insights and suggest potential applications for the antibody. Recently, a variety of advanced methods has been developed and is extensively employed to predict antigens and epitopes [ 52 ]. Additional research is required to identify the specific protein antigen and epitope that are targeted by the PD9-9 mAb, using these advanced approaches. Consequently, the PD9-9 mAb developed in this research will be the most effective to utilize.
L43:Figure 1 Diagram illustrating the production process of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against porcine dendritic cells (DCs). Porcine bone marrow cells (BMCs) were isolated and differentiated into DCs. B lymphocytes from mice were obtained after four immunizations with porcine bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs). Cell fusion was performed between murine B lymphocytes and myeloma cells. Antibody-producing hybridomas were obtained via hypoxanthine–aminopterin–thymidine (HAT) selection and hypoxanthine–thymidine (HT) supplementation.
L218: Differential development of murine dendritic cells by GM-CSF versus Flt3 ligand has implications for inflammation and trafficking J. Immunol. 2007 179 7577 7584 10.4049/jimmunol.179.11.7577 18025203
L256: Heterogeneity of porcine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells induced by GM-CSF PLoS ONE 2019 14 e0223590 10.1371/journal.pone.0223590 31689334
[29ms]
