L1:SARS-CoV-2 infection modifies the transcriptome of the megakaryocytes in the bone marrow
L7:• In a mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 infection, cytokines in the bone marrow are different from those in blood and lungs. • SARS-CoV-2–mediated inflammation promotes changes to the megakaryocyte transcriptome in the bone marrow.
L10:Megakaryocytes (MKs) reside primarily in the bone marrow (BM) in which they derive from the myeloid branch of hematopoiesis. They are rare (<0.05% of the BM cellular population) and recognizable due to their large size (up to 100 μm), polyploid nucleus, and expression of surface glycoproteins (eg, IIb and IIIa of the IIb/IIIa complex). Through several rounds of DNA replication without cellular division and an intricate maturation process, MKs generate proplatelets, which protrude into blood sinusoids and fragment into anucleate platelets. 1 ,  2 ,  3  Thus, MKs are the cellular precursors of platelets, whose RNA content (coding and noncoding) mirrors that of the mother MKs.
L19:All animal experiments were conducted under biosafety level 3 confinement and approved by the Université Laval animal committee (approval number: 2021-90). B6.Cg-Tg(K18-hACE2)2Prlmn/J (stock number 3034860) (K18-ACE2 mice) mice were purchased from the Jackson Laboratories (Bar Harbor, ME). Nine-week- to 10-week-old male and female mice were infected with 25 μL of medium containing 250 or 500 tissue culture infectious dose 50 (TCID 50 ) of SARS-CoV-2 or 25 μL of medium for mock-infected mice. Mouse body temperature and weight were recorded every day for 10 days. Mice (19.55 ± 2.95 g at day 0) were euthanized when a weight-loss threshold of 20% was reached. On days 3 and 7, mice (n = 5 per group) were euthanized, and lungs were collected for assessment of viral loads, RNA extraction, and tissue homogenization for cytokine analysis and histological studies. BM cells and BM plasma were obtained by flushing 1 femur in 300 μL of phosphate-buffered saline containing 2 mM EDTA, and cells were spun down for 5 minutes at 300 g  at room temperature. Supernatant was considered as BM plasma, and cell pellet was used to extract RNA.
L21:Femurs and lungs were harvested, fixed for 24 hours in 10% buffered formalin at 4°C, and femur were decalcified for 14 days in 14% EDTA at 4°C. Lungs or decalcified bones were saturated 24 hours in phosphate-buffered saline containing 30% sucrose at 4°C and cryopreserved in M-1 embedding matrix (Epredia). Staining was performed on 6 μm cryosections using 1 μg/mL of rabbit anti-CD41 (EPR17876, Abcam) or 25 μg/mL of rabbit anti-N (Rockland Immunochemicals Inc) and counterstain with Hoechst 33342 (10 μg/mL; Thermofisher). AF488-goat anti-rabbit (2 μg/mL; Thermofisher) was used as secondary antibody. Tissue autofluorescence was quench for 3 minutes using TrueVIEW Autofluorecence Quenching kit (Vector Laboratories). Sections were mounted using VECTASHIELD Vibrance Antifade Mounting Medium (Vector Laboratories). For quantification, images were acquired at 20× with a slide scanner (Zeiss Axio Scan.Z1) connected to a Colibri 2 camera (Zeiss, Germany). CD41 +  cells (megakaryocytes) and SARS-CoV2–covering surfaces were quantified using a total surface of at least 1.5 mm 2 , randomly assigned and using Zen 3.3 software and imageJ. MK mean size and mean area were quantified using 70 cells randomly assigned, and frequency distribution was calculated. Representative images were acquired using a Z2 confocal microscope with LSM 800 scanning system (Zeiss, Germany). Images were captured with a 20× objective. The mean size of all MKs located in the region of interest (ROI) and captured for the transcriptomic analyzes was evaluated using Fiji.
L25:Femurs from female K18-hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV2 (500 TCID 50 ) for 3 (COVID_3d) or 7 (COVID_7d) days or with conditioned media (Mock) for 7 days were fixed in formalin 24 hours, decalcified 14 days with EDTA, and embedded in paraffin. Ten μm sections were prepared and mounted onto Leica Bond Plus microscope slides. Digital spatial profiling was performed by NanoString Technologies using the GeoMX platform with the Nanostring Mouse Whole Transcriptome Atlas. Immunofluorescence staining was performed using anti-CD41 (EPR17876, Abcam) and anti-endomucin (clone V.7C7, SantaCruz Biotechnology) as morphological markers along with Syto13 DNA nucleic acid staining, to design ROI. ROI were selected based on the fluorescence of interest (CD41) and whether MKs were adjacent to sinusoid vessels (ASV) or nonadjacent to sinusoid vessels (non-ASV). Oligos from the hybridized probes were released by photo-cleaving UV light (385 nm). Sequencing libraries were constructed, and subsequent sequencing and counting were performed on an Illumina NovaSeq6000, and fastq files were processed by the NanoString DND pipeline, resulting in count data for each target probe in each ROI. Limit of quantitation was set to detect gene outliers. The limit was defined by the geometric mean of the negative probes multiplied by the square of geometric standard deviations (SDs) of the negative probes, as generally recommended by the manufacturer. The data for each ROI were adjusted to achieve the same 75th percentile (Q3) of RNA expression signal using a normalization strategy generally used for whole transcriptome data analysis. 36  A total of 19 072 genes normalized by third quartile (Q3) were expressed above the limit of quantitation in at least 10% of the ROI. Differentially expressed genes between ROIs and conditions were selected on the basis of statistically significant differences (false discovery rate (FDR); pvalue-adjusted  P  < .05; and an absolute log 2  fold-change > 1).
L30:Figure 1. SARS-CoV-2 infection in the K18-hACE2 mouse model.  (A) Schematic representation of the mouse experimental protocol. K18-hACE2 mice were inoculated intranasally with SARS-CoV-2 (250 TCID 50 ) or control media. Tissues (plasma [blood], bone marrow, and lung) were collected at 3 and 7 days after infection (DPI). (B) Survival curve of K18-hACE2 mice upon challenge with SARS-CoV-2 (250 TCID 50 , red color) or with control media (Mock, black color). Mortality (end point requiring euthanasia) expressed as percentage of survival was monitored every day for 10 days (top; n = 17-19 per group). Survival curve statistical analysis was calculated with Log-rank (Mantel-Cox) test;  ∗∗∗∗ P  < .0001. Weight change (bottom; n = 4-40) was also reported every day for 10 days and expressed as mean (± SD) percentage of weight at day 0; the average weight before infection was 19.55 ± 2.95 g. Unpaired  t - test with Welch correction was used to determine significance ( ∗ P  < .05;  ∗∗ P  < .01; and  ∗∗∗ P  < .001). (C) Lung sections were stained with a Modified Carstairs method for fibrin and platelets detection: fibrin (bright red), platelets (gray-blue), collagen (bright blue), and red blood cells (orange-yellow). Platelet thrombus (arrow head) and cell infiltration (asterix) are indicated (scale bar, 100 μm). (D) Lung damage was evaluated using a histological score (left) and lung virus titer (right) was quantified at 3 and 7 DPI using lung homogenate on vero cells and expressed in TCID 50  per mg of tissue (n = 4-5 per group). Statistics: Mann-Whitney test;  ∗ P  < .05. (E) Heat map of cytokine and growth factor profiles in blood plasma (blood), bone marrow plasma (bone marrow), and lung during SARS-CoV2 infection (3 DPI, 7 DPI, or Mock). Cytokine levels (pg/mL) were subdivided into 3 groups: 0 to 80 pg/mL (low), 0 to 450 pg/mL (mid), and 0 to 75 000 pg/mL (high). The mean concentration for each cytokine is indicated (n = 4-5). Statistics: 1-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Dunnett multiple comparisons (compared with Mock);  ∗ P  <  .05;  ∗∗ P  <  .01;  ∗∗∗ P  < .001; and  ∗∗∗∗ P  < .0001; n = 4-5 per group.
L31:Figure 2. Megakaryocyte and SARS-CoV-2 detection in tissue during COVID-19.  (A) Representative immunofluorescence images of BM MK during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Femurs of mice inoculated with SARS-CoV-2 (3 DPI or 7 DPI) or Mock-infected were stained with anti-CD41 (green) and the nuclei counterstained with Hoechst (blue; scale bar, 20 μm). (B) Megakaryocyte number was quantified in femurs and expressed as mean (± SD) × mm –2  of tissue. Statistics: 1-way ANOVA with Tukey's multiple comparisons,  ∗ P  < .05; n = 3-5 per group. (C) Frequency distribution of MK size (diameter in μm; left) and area (surface in μm 2  right panel) were analyzed, percentages of frequency are expressed as mean (± SD). Statistics, 2-way ANOVA, Mixed-effects analysis with Tukey's multiple comparisons test; n = 4-5 per group. (D) Representative immunofluorescence images of BM or lung during SARS-CoV-2 infection. SARS-CoV-2 was detected using anti–SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (green), and nuclei were counterstained with Hoechst (blue) (scale bar, 25 μm). (E) Tissues from mice uninfected (Mock) or infected with SARS-CoV-2 for 3 days or 7 days were analyzed for the presence of SARS-CoV-2. Results are expressed as mean (± SD) of SARS-CoV-2 coverage (% of tissue; top; dotted line indicates the mean value obtained for mock tissues). Viral RNA levels were determined in BM by RT-ddPCR and compared with those in the lungs (bottom). SARS-CoV-2 E gene copies were normalized with  Gapdh  mRNA copies (n = 4-5 mice per condition). Results are expressed as mean (± SD). Statistics: 2-way ANOVA, mixed-effects analysis with uncorrected Fisher's LSD,  ∗ P  < .05;  ∗∗∗∗ P  < .0001; n = 3-5 per group. BM, bone marrow; DPI, day post-infection; LSD, least significant difference; MK, megakaryocytes; RT-ddPCR, reverse transcription digital droplet polymerase chain reaction.
L32:Figure 3. Spatial transcriptomic analysis of bone marrow megakaryocytes during SARS-CoV-2 infection.  Femurs were analysed from K18-hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV2 (500 TCID 50 ) for 3 days (COVID_3d) or 7 days (COVID_7d) or with conditioned media (Mock) for 7 days. Ten-μm sections of paraffin-embedded femurs were used to perform spatial transcriptomic analysis. (A) Schematic illustration of NanoString’s GeoMx Digital Spatial Profiler (DSP) workflow. Different steps are indicated: (1) stain: femur sections were hybridized with UV photocleavable probes from the whole mouse genome and fluorescent morphology markers; (2) ROI were selected based on the fluorescence of interest (CD41) and whether MK were adjacent to sinusoid vessels (ASV-MK) or nonadjacent to sinusoid vessels (NASV-MK); (3) ROI were illuminated with UV light that released the barcodes; (4) Each ROI was collected independently using microcapillaries; (5) Sequencing libraries were generated followed by sequencing and counting. A total of 19 072 genes normalized by third quartile (Q3) were expressed above Limit of Quantitation (LOQ) in at least 10% of ROI. (B) Immunofluorescence staining of bone marrow (femur) using morphology markers. Anti-CD41 antibody (turquoise) was used to stain MK, anti-endomucin antibody (purple) to stain sinusoids, and SYTO dye (blue) to stain nuclei; scale bar, 125 μm. Representative ROI (6-8 megakaryocytes per ROI) are illustrated in the right panel. ROI with ASV-MK is yellow, and ROI with NASV-MK is white. (C, D) Volcano Plots comparing COVID_3d (C) or COVID_7d (D) vs Mock. The log2 fold change of each gene is plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in MK during COVID-19. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (E) UMAP plot of the short (30) gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class (blue circles: Mock [n = 12]; red circles: COVID_7d [n = 12]). (F) Heat map showing differences of the 30-gene signature between Mock and COVID_7d. Each row represents a MK-ROI, and each column represents a gene obtained from the short signature. (G) Relevant enriched biological processes using the 30-gene signature and their  P  values are presented. The 30-gene signature was obtained using a machine learning approach. BioDiscML was used to classified “Mock” and “COVID_7d” groups, and the best model was variable feature importance (VFI) optimized with false discovery rate (FDR). MCC for the model was 0.997. (H) PF4 mRNA expression was evaluated in bone barrow by RT-ddPCR. PF4 mRNA copies were normalized with  Gapdh  mRNA copies (n = 4-5 mice per condition). Results are expressed as mean (± SD). Statistics: unpaired  t - test with Welch correction;  ∗ P  < .05 (n = 4-5 per condition). MK, megakaryocytes; mPF4, mouse platelet factor 4; mRNA, messenger RNA; RT-ddPCR, reverse transcription digital droplet polymerase chain reaction.
L33:Biorender ( https://www.biorender.com/ ) was used to draw schematics and the graphical abstract. Figure 1. SARS-CoV-2 infection in the K18-hACE2 mouse model.  (A) Schematic representation of the mouse experimental protocol. K18-hACE2 mice were inoculated intranasally with SARS-CoV-2 (250 TCID 50 ) or control media. Tissues (plasma [blood], bone marrow, and lung) were collected at 3 and 7 days after infection (DPI). (B) Survival curve of K18-hACE2 mice upon challenge with SARS-CoV-2 (250 TCID 50 , red color) or with control media (Mock, black color). Mortality (end point requiring euthanasia) expressed as percentage of survival was monitored every day for 10 days (top; n = 17-19 per group). Survival curve statistical analysis was calculated with Log-rank (Mantel-Cox) test;  ∗∗∗∗ P  < .0001. Weight change (bottom; n = 4-40) was also reported every day for 10 days and expressed as mean (± SD) percentage of weight at day 0; the average weight before infection was 19.55 ± 2.95 g. Unpaired  t - test with Welch correction was used to determine significance ( ∗ P  < .05;  ∗∗ P  < .01; and  ∗∗∗ P  < .001). (C) Lung sections were stained with a Modified Carstairs method for fibrin and platelets detection: fibrin (bright red), platelets (gray-blue), collagen (bright blue), and red blood cells (orange-yellow). Platelet thrombus (arrow head) and cell infiltration (asterix) are indicated (scale bar, 100 μm). (D) Lung damage was evaluated using a histological score (left) and lung virus titer (right) was quantified at 3 and 7 DPI using lung homogenate on vero cells and expressed in TCID 50  per mg of tissue (n = 4-5 per group). Statistics: Mann-Whitney test;  ∗ P  < .05. (E) Heat map of cytokine and growth factor profiles in blood plasma (blood), bone marrow plasma (bone marrow), and lung during SARS-CoV2 infection (3 DPI, 7 DPI, or Mock). Cytokine levels (pg/mL) were subdivided into 3 groups: 0 to 80 pg/mL (low), 0 to 450 pg/mL (mid), and 0 to 75 000 pg/mL (high). The mean concentration for each cytokine is indicated (n = 4-5). Statistics: 1-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Dunnett multiple comparisons (compared with Mock);  ∗ P  <  .05;  ∗∗ P  <  .01;  ∗∗∗ P  < .001; and  ∗∗∗∗ P  < .0001; n = 4-5 per group. Figure 2. Megakaryocyte and SARS-CoV-2 detection in tissue during COVID-19.  (A) Representative immunofluorescence images of BM MK during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Femurs of mice inoculated with SARS-CoV-2 (3 DPI or 7 DPI) or Mock-infected were stained with anti-CD41 (green) and the nuclei counterstained with Hoechst (blue; scale bar, 20 μm). (B) Megakaryocyte number was quantified in femurs and expressed as mean (± SD) × mm –2  of tissue. Statistics: 1-way ANOVA with Tukey's multiple comparisons,  ∗ P  < .05; n = 3-5 per group. (C) Frequency distribution of MK size (diameter in μm; left) and area (surface in μm 2  right panel) were analyzed, percentages of frequency are expressed as mean (± SD). Statistics, 2-way ANOVA, Mixed-effects analysis with Tukey's multiple comparisons test; n = 4-5 per group. (D) Representative immunofluorescence images of BM or lung during SARS-CoV-2 infection. SARS-CoV-2 was detected using anti–SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (green), and nuclei were counterstained with Hoechst (blue) (scale bar, 25 μm). (E) Tissues from mice uninfected (Mock) or infected with SARS-CoV-2 for 3 days or 7 days were analyzed for the presence of SARS-CoV-2. Results are expressed as mean (± SD) of SARS-CoV-2 coverage (% of tissue; top; dotted line indicates the mean value obtained for mock tissues). Viral RNA levels were determined in BM by RT-ddPCR and compared with those in the lungs (bottom). SARS-CoV-2 E gene copies were normalized with  Gapdh  mRNA copies (n = 4-5 mice per condition). Results are expressed as mean (± SD). Statistics: 2-way ANOVA, mixed-effects analysis with uncorrected Fisher's LSD,  ∗ P  < .05;  ∗∗∗∗ P  < .0001; n = 3-5 per group. BM, bone marrow; DPI, day post-infection; LSD, least significant difference; MK, megakaryocytes; RT-ddPCR, reverse transcription digital droplet polymerase chain reaction. Figure 3. Spatial transcriptomic analysis of bone marrow megakaryocytes during SARS-CoV-2 infection.  Femurs were analysed from K18-hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV2 (500 TCID 50 ) for 3 days (COVID_3d) or 7 days (COVID_7d) or with conditioned media (Mock) for 7 days. Ten-μm sections of paraffin-embedded femurs were used to perform spatial transcriptomic analysis. (A) Schematic illustration of NanoString’s GeoMx Digital Spatial Profiler (DSP) workflow. Different steps are indicated: (1) stain: femur sections were hybridized with UV photocleavable probes from the whole mouse genome and fluorescent morphology markers; (2) ROI were selected based on the fluorescence of interest (CD41) and whether MK were adjacent to sinusoid vessels (ASV-MK) or nonadjacent to sinusoid vessels (NASV-MK); (3) ROI were illuminated with UV light that released the barcodes; (4) Each ROI was collected independently using microcapillaries; (5) Sequencing libraries were generated followed by sequencing and counting. A total of 19 072 genes normalized by third quartile (Q3) were expressed above Limit of Quantitation (LOQ) in at least 10% of ROI. (B) Immunofluorescence staining of bone marrow (femur) using morphology markers. Anti-CD41 antibody (turquoise) was used to stain MK, anti-endomucin antibody (purple) to stain sinusoids, and SYTO dye (blue) to stain nuclei; scale bar, 125 μm. Representative ROI (6-8 megakaryocytes per ROI) are illustrated in the right panel. ROI with ASV-MK is yellow, and ROI with NASV-MK is white. (C, D) Volcano Plots comparing COVID_3d (C) or COVID_7d (D) vs Mock. The log2 fold change of each gene is plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in MK during COVID-19. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (E) UMAP plot of the short (30) gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class (blue circles: Mock [n = 12]; red circles: COVID_7d [n = 12]). (F) Heat map showing differences of the 30-gene signature between Mock and COVID_7d. Each row represents a MK-ROI, and each column represents a gene obtained from the short signature. (G) Relevant enriched biological processes using the 30-gene signature and their  P  values are presented. The 30-gene signature was obtained using a machine learning approach. BioDiscML was used to classified “Mock” and “COVID_7d” groups, and the best model was variable feature importance (VFI) optimized with false discovery rate (FDR). MCC for the model was 0.997. (H) PF4 mRNA expression was evaluated in bone barrow by RT-ddPCR. PF4 mRNA copies were normalized with  Gapdh  mRNA copies (n = 4-5 mice per condition). Results are expressed as mean (± SD). Statistics: unpaired  t - test with Welch correction;  ∗ P  < .05 (n = 4-5 per condition). MK, megakaryocytes; mPF4, mouse platelet factor 4; mRNA, messenger RNA; RT-ddPCR, reverse transcription digital droplet polymerase chain reaction.
L38:SARS-CoV-2 infection increases the lung cytokine load, such as IL-6, TNF, and chemokines, in both humans and mice. 40 , 41  To identify cytokines in the BM and to determine whether they resembled those in the blood or the lungs, we collected BM from the murine femurs, from which we isolated the plasma after eliminating the marrow cells by centrifugation. We screened for the presence of 33 cytokines and chemokines in the BM plasma from uninfected mice and SARS-CoV-2–infected mice at days 3 and 7 and compared these with autologous blood plasma and lung homogenates. As expected, several cytokines were detected in the blood plasma and lungs, both at days 3 and 7 of infection ( Figures 1 E). Interestingly, while disease developed, cytokines were differentially regulated in the BM compared with blood plasma or lung ( Figure 1 E;  supplemental Figures 1-3 ). For instance, PF4, which increases in the blood of patients with COVID-19, 41  was also increased in the blood of mice after 3 days of infection, whereas its levels were decreased in the lungs ( Figure 1 E). Calprotectins (S100A8/A9) were increased in the circulating MKs and platelets in humans with COVID-19 32 , 33 , 42  but were reduced in the BM plasma ( Figure 1 E), potentially due to emergency hematopoiesis and the egress of granulocytes. IFN-γ, which would promote the expression of IFN-stimulated genes in the platelets of patients with COVID-19, 30  was increased in the blood and lungs but remained unchanged in the BM ( Figure 1 E). In contrast, IL-9 and IL-15 levels were increased in the BM, whereas it remained unchanged in the other locations studied ( Figure 1 E). The striking occurrence of a cytokine gradient in blood relative to the BM compartment prompted us to examine the transcriptome of BM MKs closely and to compare MKs distant from sinusoid vessels with those directly adjacent to blood vessels, because the latter may be more likely to be influenced by circulating inflammatory factors released in response to viral infection.
L41:We used spatial transcriptomics to assess the transcriptomes of cells in situ ( Figure 3 A). MKs in paraformaldehyde-fixed femurs were identified by their characteristic size (mean size in μm ± SD, Mock: 22.91 ± 5.243 [n = 90]; 3 days: 23.07 ± 5.302 [n = 90]; 7 days: 24.72 ± 5.513 [n = 71]), nuclear staining, and CD41 surface expression, whereas the blood vessels were identified by using the endomucin marker. Previous work that used a similar spatial transcriptomic approach to study BM MKs in healthy mice showed that as many as 1000 gene transcripts could be identified by the capture of a single MK. 43  To enhance the power of downstream analyses, we determined the transcriptome of 8 to 10 MKs that were directly ASV and compared this with equivalent number of MKs that were non-ASV. We then replicated these analyses in 6 distinct areas each ( Figure 3 A,B). Using this approach, a total of 19 072 genes were identified from all conditions using this approach.
L44:Figure 4. Spatial transcriptomic analysis of megakaryocytes within the bone marrow.  MK-ROI were selected depending on their position: ASV- or NASV-MK. (A) Volcano plots (Mock ASV-MK [n = 6] vs Mock NASV-MK [n = 6]) shows the log2 fold-change of each gene plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in megakaryocytes depending on their position. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (B) UMAP plot of the short gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class in Mock condition (blue circles: Mock ASV [n = 6]; red circles: Mock NASV [n = 6]). (C) Volcano plot of COVID_7d ASV-MK (n = 6) vs Mock ASV-MK (n = 6) (left) and COVID_7d NASV-MK (n = 6) vs Mock NASV-MK (n = 6) (right) showing the log2 fold-change of each gene plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in megakaryocytes during COVID-19. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (D) UMAP plot of the short gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class in Mock ASV-MK (blue circles [n = 6]; and COVID_7d ASV-MK red circles [n = 6]). (E) Volcano plot (COVID_7d NASV-MK [n = 6] vs Mock NASV-MK [n = 6]) show the log2 fold-change of each gene plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in megakaryocytes depending on their position. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (F) UMAP plot of the short gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class in Mock NASV-MK (blue circles [n = 6]) and COVID_7d NASV-MK (red circles [n = 6]). (G) Heat map showing differences of the 15-gene signature between ASV-MK in Mock and COVID_7d. Each row represents a MK-ROI and each column represents a gene obtained from the short signature. The 15-gene signature was obtained using a machine learning approach. BioDiscML was used to classify “Mock ASV-MK” and “COVID_7d ASV-MK.” The best model was the Functions Logistic optimized with BER (Balanced Error Rate), and MCC for the model was 0.922 ± 0.113. (H) Heat map showing differences of the 30-gene signature between NASV-MK in Mock and COVID_7d. Each row represents a MK-ROI, and each column represents a gene obtained from the short signature. The 15-gene signature was obtained using a machine learning approach. BioDiscML was used to classified “Mock NASV-MK” and “COVID_7d NASV-MK.” The best model was the complement Naïve Bayes with FDR; MCC for the model was 0.922 ± 0.114.
L45:While selecting MKs to process for transcriptome analyses, we selected a balanced number of MKs that were either ASV or non-ASV to the marrow sinusoids. We thus aimed to verify whether MK localization within the BM was a factor that could influence the overall transcription pattern. We identified 528 differently expressed genes in healthy mice ( Figure 4 A). UMAP plot did not distinguish the 2 populations of MKs ( Figure 4 B), and machine learning analyses failed to generate a model capable of accurately predicting MK localization (MCC = 0.769; SD = 0.186) in the absence of disease ( supplemental Figure 8 ), suggesting that the spatial localization of MKs relative to sinusoid vessels has no or only a limited impact on MK transcriptomes under healthy conditions. Figure 4. Spatial transcriptomic analysis of megakaryocytes within the bone marrow.  MK-ROI were selected depending on their position: ASV- or NASV-MK. (A) Volcano plots (Mock ASV-MK [n = 6] vs Mock NASV-MK [n = 6]) shows the log2 fold-change of each gene plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in megakaryocytes depending on their position. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (B) UMAP plot of the short gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class in Mock condition (blue circles: Mock ASV [n = 6]; red circles: Mock NASV [n = 6]). (C) Volcano plot of COVID_7d ASV-MK (n = 6) vs Mock ASV-MK (n = 6) (left) and COVID_7d NASV-MK (n = 6) vs Mock NASV-MK (n = 6) (right) showing the log2 fold-change of each gene plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in megakaryocytes during COVID-19. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (D) UMAP plot of the short gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class in Mock ASV-MK (blue circles [n = 6]; and COVID_7d ASV-MK red circles [n = 6]). (E) Volcano plot (COVID_7d NASV-MK [n = 6] vs Mock NASV-MK [n = 6]) show the log2 fold-change of each gene plotted against its statistical significance (−log10  P  value). Red dots represent genes significantly upregulated and blue dots, genes significantly downregulated in megakaryocytes depending on their position. Thresholds are indicated with dotted lines. (F) UMAP plot of the short gene signature of MK-ROI colored by class in Mock NASV-MK (blue circles [n = 6]) and COVID_7d NASV-MK (red circles [n = 6]). (G) Heat map showing differences of the 15-gene signature between ASV-MK in Mock and COVID_7d. Each row represents a MK-ROI and each column represents a gene obtained from the short signature. The 15-gene signature was obtained using a machine learning approach. BioDiscML was used to classify “Mock ASV-MK” and “COVID_7d ASV-MK.” The best model was the Functions Logistic optimized with BER (Balanced Error Rate), and MCC for the model was 0.922 ± 0.113. (H) Heat map showing differences of the 30-gene signature between NASV-MK in Mock and COVID_7d. Each row represents a MK-ROI, and each column represents a gene obtained from the short signature. The 15-gene signature was obtained using a machine learning approach. BioDiscML was used to classified “Mock NASV-MK” and “COVID_7d NASV-MK.” The best model was the complement Naïve Bayes with FDR; MCC for the model was 0.922 ± 0.114.
L49:Respiratory tract infections are highly contagious and are responsible for millions of deaths worldwide each year, often following seasonal cycles. During influenza or Sendai virus infection, type I IFN produced in the lungs can affect cells in the BM, 46  thereby driving antiviral responses in emerging immune cells despite the absence of viral particles in the BM. IL-1 and IL-6, produced during influenza infection can also trigger emergency megakaryopoiesis, driving MK production directly from CD41 +  (MK-committed) hematopoietic stem cells. 47  Megakaryopoiesis, however, was unlikely implicated in COVID-19 mice, because the number of MKs was reduced by the infection. SARS-CoV-2 primarily infects the host lung epithelium to cause respiratory tract inflammation, although its persistence and distribution in the human body, such as in kidneys, testis, and brain, varies greatly between individuals. 48 ,  49 ,  50 ,  51  We show that MKs localized in the BM, more specifically in the femur, respond to inflammation through changes to their transcriptome during the course of lung infection. The transcriptional changes are unlikely to be due to SARS-CoV-2 itself, because the virus was mostly eliminated at this time and was undetectable in the BM. IFN was not induced in the BM, and the MKs in the BM examined at all stages of the disease never overexpressed IFN-stimulated genes ( supplemental Figure 7 A), perhaps due to the low IFN-inducing potential of SARS-CoV-2. 52  It remains to be determined what molecule(s) stimulates MKs in the BM, but our survey of cytokines in both the BM and blood suggest that cytokines such as RANTES, known to induce proplatelet formation by MKs, or IL-9 and IL-15 might be implicated. 53  Damage-associated molecular patterns generated in the pathogenesis 54  or the reduced levels of S100A8/A9, a trigger of toll-like receptor 4, observed in the BM, may also play a role. 55  Moreover, there may be a role for extracellular vesicles, reportedly increased in COVID-19 and capable of reaching MKs in the BM, 56 , 57  or lipid mediators of inflammation, also increased in COVID-19. 41  SARS-CoV-2 stimulates tissue factor expression from lung epithelial cells and thrombin activity, 58  which too may activate MKs 59  and might affect the MK transcriptome.
L51:Valuable information on the occurrence of potential subpopulations of MKs in BM was provided by recent single-cell RNA sequencing approaches. 21 , 68  A major challenge in the study of MKs is maintaining the integrity of these rare cells, and this is even more true for those imbricated in sinusoids because they are less likely to be captured by the harvest of the marrow or to survive the process of single-cell RNA sequencing analysis. This is an issue, because the single-cell RNA sequencing approach depends on cell integrity and excludes apoptotic cells. Moreover, most common, commercial single-cell sequencing approaches (eg, 10XGenomics, BD Rhapsody) use a 10 μm diameter nozzle, suggesting that the larger MKs may be lost through the process and may be underrepresented. To overcome this and for safety reasons given the use of virus-infected materials, we examined cells in femurs fixed in paraformaldehyde using Nanostring GeoMx. In addition to conserving the hard-to-get MKs imbricated in sinusoids, a notable advantage of this sort of analysis is the richness in terms of RNA content of polyploid cells, which would theoretically allow for the study of very few MKs while obtaining sufficient number of RNA molecules for downstream bioinformatic analyses. Little transcriptional changes were found in MKs at day 3 of infection, despite the large viral load at this time and the noticeable changes to cytokine composition in the BM. In contrast, by day 7, we observed numerous changes, attributed by pathway enrichment analyses to histone modifications, MK differentiation, NETosis, and autoimmunity. These characteristics may be congruent with changes to subpopulations of MKs, such as cycling and platelet-producing MKs. While separating MKs into the 4 subclasses on the basis of their transcripts signature identified by Sun et al 21  (cell cycling, platelet generation, hematopoietic stem cell niche, and inflammatory), we find that, with the exception of  pf4  and  itgb2 , none of the transcript changes comprised a particular subclass ( supplemental Figure 11 ). The data suggest that modifications of histones may favor DNA replication, whereas MK differentiation may result from emergency megakaryopoiesis. As for NETosis, it is reportedly enhanced in COVID-19, whereas SLE shares common features with COVID-19 such as dysregulated immune cells and autoantibody production. Whether emperipolesis, the process by which neutrophils migrate into MKs, 69 , 70  is enhanced in COVID-19 and explains these changes to transcriptome is also a hypothesis to consider. More mechanistic investigations are needed to confirm the role of these MKs in inflammation and infection.
L102:43 Tilburg J Stone AP Billingsley JM Spatial transcriptomics of murine bone marrow megakaryocytes at single-cell resolution Res Pract Thromb Haemost 7 4 2023 100158
L105:46 Hermesh T Moltedo B Moran TM Lopez CB Antiviral instruction of bone marrow leukocytes during respiratory viral infections Cell Host Microbe 7 5 2010 343 353 20478536
L116:57 French SL Butov KR Allaeys I Platelet-derived extracellular vesicles infiltrate and modify the bone marrow during inflammation Blood Adv 4 13 2020 3011 3023 32614966
L130:71 Stegner D vanEeuwijk JMM Angay O Thrombopoiesis is spatially regulated by the bone marrow vasculature Nat Commun 8 1 2017 127 28743899
L137:_bone marrow_
L160:Total RNA from mouse lungs and bone marrow cells was extracted using the Bead
L181:**Figure S1** Cytokine levels in Bone Marrow Plasma during SARS-Cov2 infection.
[34ms]
