L7:Magnesium-based composites are a focal point in biomaterials research. However, the rapid degradation rate of magnesium alloys does not align with the healing time of bone tissue. Additionally, the host reaction caused by magnesium implantation hampers its full osteogenic potential. To maintain an appropriate microenvironment, it is important to enhance both corrosion resistance and osteogenic activity of the magnesium matrix. In this study, a composite scaffold composed of mineralized collagen and magnesium alloy was utilized to investigate the regulatory effect of mineralized collagen on mouse macrophages and evaluate its impact on mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in terms of osteogenesis, immune response, and macrophage-induced osteogenic differentiation. This experiment examined the biocompatibility of mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells and macrophage-induced osteogenic differentiation in vitro, and examined the expression levels of relevant pathways proteins. Magnesium calcium alloys/mineralized collagen exhibited extensive spreading, facilitated by broad and abundant pseudopodia that firmly adhered them to the material surface and promoted growth and pseudopodia formation. The findings revealed that magnesium calcium alloy/mineralized collagen scaffold materials induced osteogenic differentiation mainly through M2 polarization of macrophages. This effect was mainly mediated by promoting the integrin α2β1-FAK-ERK1/2 signaling pathways and inhibiting the RANK signaling pathways.
L11:With the increasing number of elderly individuals, there has been a significant rise in the prevalence of bone-related diseases worldwide [ 1 ]. Annually, over six million fractures occur globally, with 56 % requiring permanent or temporary internal fixation materials for surgical treatment [ 2 , 3 ]. Consequently, the development of biomaterials for internal fixation is an active area of research in orthopedics. Magnesium (Mg) and its alloys are biodegradable and good biocompatibility. Compared to other metals commonly used in clinical practice, Mg alloys have a similar modulus of elasticity to that of the bone cortex, thereby reducing the occurrence of the “stress shielding effect.” However, degradability is advantageous for Mg alloys, but it also poses limitations as it can degrade rapidly without aligning with bone tissue healing time [ 4 ]. Moreover, host responses triggered by Mg alloy implantation hinder its full osteogenic potential. Therefore, one major limitation in traditional research lies in neglecting the significance of immune responses [ 5 , 6 ]. Timely and appropriate immune responses play a crucial role in promoting bone healing [ 7 ]. Henceforth, during synthesis techniques employed for Mg alloy composites fabrication, optimizing corrosion resistance within the Mg matrix and enhancing osteogenic activity become imperative to maintain an optimal “bone immune microenvironment.” This will enable matching between matrix degradation rates and osteogenesis during in vivo implantation while addressing key challenges associated with clinical applications involving Mg-based metals. Several researchers have implemented this strategy within their studies on artificial bone grafting materials. Zeng and colleagues [ 8 ] prepared Mg–Li–1Ca with plasma electrolysis (MAO) coating and conducted experimental studies on its biocompatibility and corrosion resistance. They found that the coating of the MAO/PLLA composite materials greatly improved the corrosion resistance and compatibility of the cells. Mineralized collagen (nHAC) is a biomimetic composite material of nanohydroxyapatite and type I collagen. Bone, cartilage, sinews, and dentine are made of nHAC [ 9 ]. Therefore, nHAC can be used to repair bone defects, promote bone development, and accurately regulate bone immune responses. By regulating the polarization of macrophages during bone regeneration, nHAC can strongly induce enough M2 macrophages in vivo and in vitro to regulate the host immune response [ 10 , 11 ]. Regarding the regulatory role of bone biomaterials in osteogenesis, the immune response has both advantages and disadvantages. Adverse immune reactions can result in chronic inflammation and the formation of a fibrous capsule around the biomaterials, which hinders contact and integration between osteoblasts and the implant, thereby disrupting bone remodeling [ 12 ]. Therefore, we applied a coating of nHAC material to the surface of the Mg alloys. In our previous research, Mg 2+ /Col I can stimulate the integrin α2β1-FAK-ERK1/2 pathway to promote osteogenesis [ 13 ]. RANK (NF-kB receptor activating Ligand) receptor activating ligand is a cytokine belonging to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family. It induces differentiation of precursor osteoclasts into mature osteoclasts. By activating corresponding signal transduction pathways, RANK stimulates differentiated osteoclasts to express specific genes that enable mature osteoclasts to undergo bone resorption and maintain their survival [ 14 ]. Hence, we investigated whether Mg–Ca/nHAC biomaterials promote osteogenic differentiation by regulating macrophage polarization and its underlying mechanisms. The aim of this study was to investigate the promotion of osteogenic differentiation by Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds through inducing macrophage polarization and the effect of scaffolds on mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (mBMSCs), so as to elucidate the mechanisms of Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds on bone repair.
L21:According to the GB/T16886.5 standard, mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (mBMSCs, sourced from Shanghai Saibaikang) were added into DMEM supplemented with 10 mL/dL fetal bovine serum, 0.1 mol/L dexamethasone, 50 μg/mL Vitamin C, and 10 mmol/L β-sodiumglycerophosphate. The cells were cultivated in a constant temperature incubator (5 % CO 2 , 37 °C).
L96:We investigated the impact of macrophage polarization on the osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells through an ALP activity assay, with results depicted in  Fig. 12 . Perform the ELISA according to the ALP assay kit instructions. Calculation was performed using the designated formula and the data was plotted using GraphPad Prism. The ALP activity of the Mg–Ca/nHAC group recorded the highest value. Moreover, both the Mg–Ca alloy group and Mg–Ca/nHAC group exhibited higher ALP activity compared to the control group. Both Mg–Ca, nHAC, and Mg–Ca/nHAC composite scaffolds significantly enhanced ALP activity. Moreover, the ALP activity in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group significantly surpassed that of all other groups. Photography under a light microscope, noticeable distinctions in blue nodules were observed across various treatment groups, particularly in the Mg–Ca/nHAC group. Positively stained cells appeared as dark bluish-purple. Fig. 12 After the samples were cultured with mBMSCs for 7 days, ALP activity of the samples was measured and photographed (scale bar: 100 μm).*p < 0.05. Fig. 12
[50ms]
