L1:Candida parapsilosis  bone marrow infection in an immunocompetent patient
L10:We discuss a case of an immunocompetent patient who presented with fever and tachypnoea, found to have  Candida parapsilosis  bone marrow infection, cultured on bone marrow aspirate sample.  Candida parapsilosis  is an opportunistic yeast pathogen that typically affects immunocompromised individuals, or occurs in patients with apparent introduced source; neither of these factors were present for this case. Bone marrow aspirates and trephines are not regular investigations for fever; however they can be useful diagnostic aids as evidenced in this case.
L12:An 83-year-old woman presenting with fevers and tachypnoea was being treated for a systemic bacterial infection, however was unresponsive to empirical antibiotic therapy. To exclude an occult malignancy, an 18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography scan was conducted. Significant bone marrow uptake was noted, prompting a bone marrow aspirate and trephine to investigate for a hematological malignancy. While the trephine biopsy was benign, a culture of the aspirate grew  Candida parapsilosis . Intravenous antifungal therapy was initiated; however, the patient did not improve despite targeted therapy likely due to delays in diagnosis, and was palliated.
L14:Our case seeks to demonstrate a novel case whereby a bone marrow aspirate culture provided a conclusive diagnosis of invasive  Candida parapsilosis  bone marrow infection, and guided treatment in an immunocompetent patient. It is important for clinicians to consider invasive fungal infections in febrile patients regardless of immune status. Additionally, when performing a bone marrow aspirate and trephine on a febrile patient, we recommend including aspirate fungal cultures to investigate for an invasive fungal infection.
L16:Bone Marrow; Candida parapsilosis; Invasive Fungal Infections
L20:To our knowledge, there is a paucity in the current literature regarding the use of bone marrow (BM) aspirates to detect  Candia parapsilosis  mycoses in immunocompetent patients who have positron emission tomography (PET) avidity. There is only one other documented case of a solitary BM mycosis in a patient with neither acquired immunodeficiency nor immunomodulating therapy, however no BM aspirate culture was taken in that case and the diagnosis was determined through a combination of BM trephine histology and detection of serum antifungal antibodies  [5] . Here we describe a case whereby the concomitant use of a PET scan with a BM aspirate culture allowed for targeted therapy to be initiated.
L25:Fig. 1 PET scan showing diffuse uptake in the bone marrow of the patient. Areas of diffuse uptake indicated with arrows. PET, Positron Emission Tomography.
L26:Initial concerns were that the patient had a concomitant bacterial infection superimposed with the initial RSV infection. For empirical treatment, the patient received 182 mg of intravenous (IV) gentamicin as a single dose and was given 2 g IV flucloxacillin every four hours. Antimicrobial cover was broadened to IV piperacillin-tazobactam 4 g-0.5 g every six hours. However, after refractory febrile episodes and a poor response to IV antibiotics, the potential diagnosis of an occult malignancy was also explored. Serum cancer-antigen (CA)− 125 was 25kU/L (<35), CA-19 was 20kU/L (0−35), CA15–3 was 17kU/L (0−24), carcinoembryonic antigen 1.4 µg/L (0–0.5), alpha fetoprotein 1.7 µg/L (<9), and quantitative beta human chorionic gonadotropin 2 U/L (0−12). Six days after admission, a PET scan was performed, showing diffuse BM uptake ( Fig. 1 ), consistent with reactive or proliferative disease, and the hematology team organised a bone marrow aspirate and trephine (BMAT). Fig. 1 PET scan showing diffuse uptake in the bone marrow of the patient. Areas of diffuse uptake indicated with arrows. PET, Positron Emission Tomography. Fig. 1
L27:Fig. 2 Bone marrow examination findings: (A) bone marrow aspirate demonstrating hemophagocytosis with active phagocytic cells containing intact cells and cellular debris (x 400 magnification); (B) bone marrow trephine demonstrating hypercellularity with granulocytic hyperplasia and no excess of blasts, lymphocytes or granuloma formation (x 200 magnification); (C & D) bone marrow trephine immunohistochemistry with Grocott silver stain (x 100 magnification) revealed non-specific uptake only (positive control = black staining) and was negative with (E & F) Periodic acid-schiff stain also (x 100 magnification; positive control = bright pink staining).
L28:BM aspiration (May-Grunwald-Giemsa stain) revealed marked hemophagocytosis with no infiltration by malignant cells or infectious organisms ( Fig. 2 A). Similarly, BM trephine (hemotyxlin and eosin stain) demonstrated mild-moderate hypercellularity for age with left-shifted granulopoiesis, with no excess of blasts, lymphocytes, apparent fungal elements or granuloma formation ( Fig. 2 B). Furthermore, immunohistochemistry with Grocott’s methenamine silver and periodic acid-schiff (PAS) staining were also negative ( Fig. 2 C-F; positive controls included). No potassium hydroxide preparation stains were done. No yeast cells or pseudo-hyphae were noted on any of the trephine sample stains. Gram staining was negative, however after 48 h BM aspirate culture grew a fungal colony. Using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, a diagnosis of a  Candida parapsilosis  BM mycosis was established. The BMAT was performed under sterile technique, and while it is possible that the culture result was a contaminant, the  Candida parapsilosis  was considered pathogenic for invasive infection by the infectious diseases team based on clinical picture and the results of other negative infectious investigations. Unfortunately, the authors were not able to obtain an image of the agar plate on which the  Candida parapsilosis  colony first grew. Fig. 2 Bone marrow examination findings: (A) bone marrow aspirate demonstrating hemophagocytosis with active phagocytic cells containing intact cells and cellular debris (x 400 magnification); (B) bone marrow trephine demonstrating hypercellularity with granulocytic hyperplasia and no excess of blasts, lymphocytes or granuloma formation (x 200 magnification); (C & D) bone marrow trephine immunohistochemistry with Grocott silver stain (x 100 magnification) revealed non-specific uptake only (positive control = black staining) and was negative with (E & F) Periodic acid-schiff stain also (x 100 magnification; positive control = bright pink staining). Fig. 2
L33:The differential diagnosis of a malignancy was considered early, due to the combination of weight loss, persistent fevers, and lack of response to antimicrobial treatment. The PET scan was completed six days after admission and demonstrated diffuse uptake in the bone marrow ( Fig. 1 ). Subsequently, there were significant concerns about a hematological malignancy or BM infection, which warranted a BMAT, that was performed on day eleven. Given that it was the aspirate culture that guided appropriate therapy, an earlier BMAT may have resulted in earlier treatment and potentially a better outcome for the patient, however it is important to appreciate the limitations of BM investigations. BM trephine biopsy has a 14–31.9% yield as a diagnosis-defining investigation  [9] ,  [10] , however, aspirate cultures have mixed yields ranging from 0–40%  [10] ,  [11]  and are not typically considered a common investigation for fevers. Blood and urine cultures have a higher diagnostic yield than BM culture when investigating for fevers  [10] . There are however some reports that BM aspirate culture slightly enhances diagnosis in immunocompetent patients  [12] , by up to 5.5%  [10] . It is worth noting that BM culture has a higher sensitivity for detecting fungal pathogens in comparison to a BM stain and microscopy, and that detecting a fungus on a BM trephine stain in an immunocompetent patient is generally rare  [13] .
L34:Interestingly, serial fungal blood cultures remained negative for the patient, including a sample taken prior to IV antifungal treatment. This surprised the treating team, as the PET scan showed multiple sites of reactive changes in bone marrow, indicative of hematogenous spread of the  Candida parapsilosis . This is readily explained if the initial culture was a false negative, and subsequent cultures were appropriately treated. If only a single culture is taken,  Candida  species have a sensitivity ranging between 60–75%  [14] . This increases to 95–100% if three cultures are taken. A false negative result may have been avoided had the treating team collected more samples prior to IV antifungal therapy. Nevertheless, the BM aspirate culture provided diagnosis and guided therapy, and the blood culture result had no bearing on treatment.
L47:5 Zimpfer A. Piehler P. Kofler G. Dirnhofer S. Tzankov A. Isolated bone marrow mycosis in a patient presenting with consumptive symptoms J Clin Pathol 57 1 2004 107 108 14693851
L51:9 Hot A. Jaisson I. Girard C. Yield of bone marrow examination in diagnosing the source of fever of unknown origin Arch Intern Med 169 21 2009 2018 2023 19933965
L52:10 Martellosio J.P. Puyade M. Debiais C. Bone marrow biopsy diagnostic yield in internal medicine Post Med 133 1 2021 89 95
L53:11 Sai S.K. Padhi S. Varghese R.G.B. Kanungo R. Basheer A. Iqbal N. Diagnostic utility of bone marrow examination in evaluation of fever: a descriptive study on 98 immunocompetent adults from a tertiary care institute in south India Trop Doct 49 2 2019 88 96 30614411
L54:12 Gupta R. Setia N. Arora P. Singh S. Singh T. Hematological profile in pyrexia of unknown origin: role of bone marrow trephine biopsy vis-à-vis aspiration Hematology 13 5 2008 307 312 18854095
L55:13 Wilkins B. Clark D. Bain B. Bone Marrow Pathology 5th ed. 2019 Wiley United Kingdom
[61ms]
