L1:Francisella tularensis  Live Vaccine Strain training of murine alveolar and bone marrow-derived macrophages
L7:The discovery of non-specific “trained immunity” in monocytes has generated substantial excitement. However, to date, training has been studied with relatively few microbes (e.g.,  Mycobacterium bovis  Bacille Calmette-Guérin, a live attenuated intracellular bacterium used as a vaccine) and microbial substances (e.g., LPS), and it remains unclear whether training during infection is common. We previously demonstrated that vaccination of mice with  Francisella tularensis  Live Vaccine Strain (LVS), another live attenuated intracellular bacterium, protected against challenge with the unrelated bacterium  Listeria monocytogenes . The present study therefore tested whether LVS vaccination engenders trained macrophages that contributed to this protection. To do so, we used a previous  in vitro  co-culture approach with murine bone marrow-derived macrophages to expand and study lung alveolar macrophages. We demonstrated that alveolar macrophages can be productively infected and employed to characterize interactions with LVS-immune lymphocytes. However, we find no evidence that either bone marrow-derived or alveolar macrophages are trained by LVS vaccination.
L8:Traditionally, successful vaccines rely on specific adaptive immunity by activating lymphocytes with an attenuated pathogen, or pathogen subunit, to elicit heightened responses upon subsequent exposures. However, recent work with  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  and other pathogens has identified a role for “trained” monocytes in protection through memory-like but non-specific immunity. Here, we used an  in vitro  co-culture approach to study the potential role of trained macrophages, including lung alveolar macrophages, in immune responses to the Live Vaccine Strain (LVS) of  Francisella tularensis. F. tularensis  is an intracellular bacterium that replicates within mammalian macrophages and causes respiratory as well as systemic disease. We vaccinated mice with  F. tularensis  LVS and then obtained lung alveolar macrophages, or derived macrophages from bone marrow. LVS infected and replicated comparably in both types of macrophages, whether naïve or from LVS-vaccinated mice. LVS-infected macrophages were then co-cultured with either naïve splenocytes, splenocytes from mice vaccinated intradermally, or splenocytes from mice vaccinated intravenously. For the first time, we show that immune (but not naïve) splenocytes controlled bacterial replication within alveolar macrophages, similar to previous results using bone marrow-derived macrophage. However, no differences in control of intramacrophage bacterial replication were found between co-cultures with naïve macrophages or macrophages from LVS-vaccinated mice; furthermore, nitric oxide levels and interferon-gamma production in supernatants were largely comparable across all conditions. Thus, in the context of  in vitro  co-cultures, the data do not support development of trained macrophages in bone marrow or lungs of mice vaccinated with LVS intradermally or intravenously.
L13:A growing body of evidence supports that innate immune memory is induced at both the central and local levels in the bone marrow and tissues, respectively. While earlier studies identified the presence of trained bone marrow progenitors ( 4 ,  5 ), recent findings support the development of trained tissue resident monocytes, including microglia and alveolar macrophages (AMØs), with increased glycolytic metabolism and chemokine production; these responses are functional hallmarks of trained immunity ( 6 – 8 ). For example, Yao et al. ( 7 ) demonstrated that an adenovirus infection can induce a lasting memory phenotype in alveolar macrophages, associated with upregulation of MHC II, host defense genes, glycolytic activity, and neutrophil chemokine responses.
L16:In previous studies, we have used an  in vitro  co-culture system to study mechanisms by which immune T cells control the replication of  Francisella  or  M. tuberculosis  within infected macrophages. The relevance of the  in vitro  approach to  in vivo  host-pathogen interactions has been amply demonstrated by its success in predicted vaccine-induced protection of mice and rats challenged  in vivo  ( 18 – 21 ). However, to date, only bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMØs) have been used in this system. Because training can depend on the route of vaccination, here we adapted this  in vitro  co-culture approach to evaluate control of bacterial replication in alveolar macrophages as well. We then used both methods to study the potential roles of myeloid trained immunity in  Francisella  infections and to examine whether LVS administered intradermally (i.d.) or intravenously (i.v.) stimulates trained immunity.
L18:Intramacrophage LVS growth and lymphocyte-mediated control of bacterial growth is comparable in BMMØs from naïve or parenterally vaccinated mice
L19:BMMØs from naïve mice and from mice vaccinated with LVS i.d. were infected with LVS, and some LVS-infected BMMØs were co-cultured with naïve or immune splenocytes. After 72 hours, supernatants were recovered, and BMMØs were lysed to determine bacterial CFU. Bacterial uptake at the start of infection (0 hour) and after 72 hours was similar in BMMØs from naïve or vaccinated mice ( Fig. 1A ). LVS bacterial replication was not controlled in either type of BMMØs when co-cultured with naïve splenocytes. In contrast, intramacrophage bacterial replication was significantly controlled by LVS-immune lymphocytes but was comparable when using BMMØs derived from either naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS ( Fig. 1A ).
L20:Fig 1 Bacterial growth and lymphocyte-mediated control of  in vitro  bacterial replication is comparable when using BMMØs from naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS. BMMØs were prepared in 24-well plates from naïve mice or from mice vaccinated with LVS i.d. Confluent macrophages were infected with LVS, and then naïve or immune splenocytes were overlaid on LVS-infected macrophages. Three days later, macrophages were lysed and plated to count recovered CFU/mL (panel A). In panel A, ** denotes a significant difference of  P  < 0.01 by two-tailed Student’s  t -test with equal variance: co-cultures with naïve BMMØs and naïve splenocytes were significantly different from those with naïve BMMØs and splenocytes from i.d. LVS-immune mice; similarly, co-cultures with BMMØs from i.d.-primed mice and naïve splenocytes were significantly different from those with BMMØs from i.d.-primed mice and i.d. LVS-immune splenocytes. Supernatants collected from co-cultures were assessed for levels of nitric oxide (panel B) or for IFN-γ (panel C). Values shown are mean ± SD from triplicate wells of one representative experiment of three experiments of similar design and outcome. In panel C, *** denotes a significant difference of  P  < 0.001 by two-tailed Student’s  t -test with equal variance for the same combinations described in panel A. Differences noted as significant were found in all three replicate experiments.
L21:To further assess potential differences between activities of BMMØs from naïve mice and i.d. LVS-vaccinated mice, supernatants collected from all cultures were assessed for levels of nitric oxide (NO) ( Fig. 1B ) and IFN-γ ( Fig. 1C ), both of which regulate intramacrophage bacterial replication. Neither IFN-γ nor NO were detected in supernatants from LVS-infected BMMØs alone. NO levels were similar in supernatants from co-cultures with BMMØs from naïve mice compared to those from i.d. LVS-vaccinated mice. Of note, however, IFN-γ levels were consistently twofold higher in co-cultures with BMMØs from LVS-vaccinated mice ( Fig. 1C ).
L23:As noted, to date, previous studies have utilized rodent bone marrow-derived macrophages to quantitate immune lymphocyte-mediated control of intracellular bacterial growth ( 18 – 23 ). Respiratory exposure is an important route of  Francisella  infection, and tissue resident alveolar macrophages are the first target of infection ( 24 ). Therefore, we evaluated macrophages derived from alveolar lavage, including alveolar macrophages obtained from naïve and mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS. Bacterial uptake and replication over 3 days was similar in AMØs from naïve or i.d. LVS-vaccinated mice ( Fig. 2 ). Notably, uptake and growth of LVS over 3 days was similar between AMØs ( Fig. 2 ) and BMMØs ( Fig. 1 ). Further, naïve splenocytes did not inhibit intramacrophage bacterial replication in either type of macrophages. In contrast, splenocytes from mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS significantly controlled LVS growth within AMØs, and control was comparable when using AMØs derived from either naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.d. with LVS ( Fig. 2 ). Thus, the  in vitro  co-culture approach detects immune lymphocyte-mediated bacterial growth control within this relevant type of macrophages. Supernatants collected from co-cultures were evaluated for NO and IFN-γ levels, but surprisingly concentrations for both were below the limit of detection for all tested conditions (H. Khan, unpublished data; the limit of detection was approximately 0.2 μM for NO and 100 pg/mL for IFN-γ).
L25:Intramacrophage LVS growth and lymphocyte-mediated control of bacterial growth is comparable in BMMØs from naïve or systemically-vaccinated mice
L26:Previous studies demonstrated that intravenous BCG vaccination stimulated greater degrees of trained immunity compared to intradermal administration ( 25 – 27 ). We performed experiments of similar design using mice vaccinated with LVS i.v. Similar to results obtained when using lymphocytes from i.d. vaccinated mice, bacterial uptake, bacterial replication, and lymphocyte-mediated control of  in vitro  bacterial replication were all comparable when using BMMØs from naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.v. with LVS. Bacterial replication was not controlled in co-cultures with naïve splenocytes, and immune lymphocyte-mediated control was significant compared to co-cultures with naïve splenocytes ( Fig. 3A ). However, NO production ( Fig. 3B ) as well as IFN-γ levels ( Fig. 3C ) in co-cultures were consistently two fold higher in co-cultures using BMMØs from mice vaccinated with LVS i.v. These observations are similar to that seen for IFN-γ levels in co-cultures with BMMØs from LVS-vaccinated mice ( Fig. 1C ). The biological significance of these relatively subtle  in vitro  differences is not clear, particularly in light of the lack of differences in control of bacterial growth ( Fig. 1A and 3A ). Taken together, we do not consider these small  in vitro  differences to be evidence of macrophage training during LVS vaccination.
L27:Fig 3 Lymphocyte-mediated control of  in vitro  bacterial replication was comparable when using BMMØs from naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.v. with LVS. BMMØs were prepared in 24-well plates from naïve mice or from mice vaccinated with LVS i.v. Confluent macrophages were infected with LVS, and then naïve splenocytes or splenocytes from mice vaccinated with LVS i.v. were overlaid on LVS-infected macrophages. Three days later, macrophages were lysed and plated to count recovered CFU/mL (panel A). In panel A, ** denotes a significant difference of  P  < 0.01 by two-tailed Student’s  t -test with equal variance: co-cultures with naïve BMMØs and naïve splenocytes were significantly different from those with naïve BMMØs and splenocytes from i.v. LVS-immune mice; similarly, co-cultures with BMMØs from i.v.-primed mice and naïve splenocytes were significantly different from those with BMMØs from i.v.-primed mice and i.v. LVS-immune splenocytes. Supernatants collected from co-cultures were assessed for levels of nitric oxide (panel B) or for IFN-γ (panel C). Values shown are mean ± SD from triplicate wells of one representative experiment of three experiments of similar design and outcome. In panels B and C, *** denotes a significant difference of  P  < 0.001 by two-tailed Student’s  t -test with equal variance for the same combinations described in panel A. Differences noted as significant were found in all three replicate experiments.
L29:Finally, we studied outcomes in co-culture assays using alveolar macrophages obtained from either naïve mice or mice vaccinated with LVS i.v. Replication of bacteria was similar when using AMØs from naïve mice or mice vaccinated i.v. with LVS. As seen with the BMMØs, naïve splenocytes did not inhibit intramacrophage bacterial replication in AMØs co-cultured with naïve splenocytes. In contrast, AMØs co-cultured with splenocytes from mice vaccinated i.v. significantly controlled the intramacrophage LVS growth, and control was comparable when AMØs were obtained from naïve mice or i.v.-vaccinated mice ( Fig. 4 ). Supernatants collected from co-cultures were evaluated for NO and IFN-γ levels. However, similar to results using BMMØs, the concentrations were below the limit of detection for all tested conditions (Khan, unpublished data).
L33:Importantly, these studies further lay the groundwork for future studies of interactions between alveolar macrophages and immune lymphocytes, demonstrating that the  in vitro  co-culture approach readily detects immune functions relevant to vaccine-induced bacterial control. The unexpected observation of strong control that was not accompanied by detectable NO or IFN-γ production will be an important topic for future studies. For the present, the results shown here collectively support the conclusion that intramacrophage  Francisella  growth as well as lymphocyte-mediated control of  in vitro Francisella  LVS replication are comparable when using macrophages derived from the bone marrow or the lungs of naïve mice or mice vaccinated with LVS either parenterally or systemically. Therefore, in the context of the  in vitro  co-culture system, the data to date do not support substantial development of trained macrophages in LVS-vaccinated mice.
L38:For each experiment, mice were vaccinated either i.d. or i.v. For i.d. injections, mice were given 1 × 10 4  LVS in 100 µL phosphate buffered saline (PBS) at the base of the tail. Intravenous injections were administered into the lateral tail vein at a dose of 1 × 10 2  LVS in 200 µL PBS. Actual vaccination doses were confirmed retrospectively by plating the inoculum onto Mueller Hinton (MH) plates. At 8 weeks after vaccination, mice were humanely euthanized and cells from the lungs, bone marrow, or spleens were harvested for  in vitro  assays.
L42:Mouse BMMØs were cultured and infected with LVS as described previously ( 18 ). Briefly, BMMØs were cultured in complete Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium (DMEM with 10% heat-inactivated fetal calf serum, 0.2 mM L-glutamine, 0.1 mM non-essential amino acids, 10 mM HEPES buffer, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, and 1 mM sodium bicarbonate) and macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) in 24-well plates. After 7 days, triplicate confluent macrophage monolayers were infected for 2 hours with  F. tularensis  LVS at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 1:50 (bacterium to BMMØ ratio). Monolayers were then washed, treated with 50 µg/mL gentamicin for 45 minutes, and then washed again with antibiotic-free medium. To measure uptake at 0 hours, some macrophages were lysed with water and plated for bacterial counts. Single-cell suspensions of splenocytes from vaccinated or naïve mice were added to LVS-infected macrophages at a concentration of 5 × 10 6  cells/well. After 72 hours, supernatants were collected and stored at −80°C for further analyses, and the remaining macrophages were lysed and plated for bacterial counts.
L43:Mouse AMØs were prepared through bronchial alveolar lavage (BAL), cultured, and infected with LVS as described above for BMMØs with minor revisions. Briefly, for the BAL, mice were euthanized through an intraperitoneal injection of a ketamine-xylazine cocktail at 0.8 mL per mouse. BAL was collected via insertion of a cannula through a 20G × 1 1/4-inch needle. The cannula was used to flush cells from the lungs with cold wash buffer (PBS with 2% fetal bovine serum and 0.5 mM EDTA). The cells were then pelleted and re-suspended in complete media (DMEM with 10% heat-inactivated fetal calf serum, 0.2 mM L-glutamine, 0.1 mM non-essential amino acids, 10 mM HEPES buffer, 1 mM sodium pyruvate, and 55 mM 2-β-mercaptoethanol) with 2.5 µg/mL amphotericin B and 10 µg/mL ampicillin for 1 hour on ice. After the incubation, cells were washed again and re-suspended in antibiotic-free media. Cells were cultured in media in 96-well plates at 1.25 × 10 5  cells/well. The next day, triplicate confluent macrophage monolayers were infected for 2 hours with  F. tularensis  LVS at an MOI of 2:1 (bacteria to AMØ ratio). Monolayers were then washed, treated with 50 µg/mL gentamicin for 45 minutes, and then washed again with antibiotic-free medium. Single-cell suspensions of splenocytes from vaccinated or naïve mice were added to LVS-infected macrophages at a concentration of 2.5 × 10 5  cells/well. After 72 hours, macrophages were lysed and plated for bacterial counts.
[89ms]
