L46:Loss of periodontal tissue due to persistent inflammation in periodontitis is a major cause of tooth loss in adults. Overcoming osteogenic inhibition in the inflammatory periodontal environment and restoring the regenerative capacity of endogenous bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) remain critical challenges in current treatment approaches. Macrophage‐derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key regulators of osteogenesis in recipient cells, yet the role of erythropoietin (EPO) in modifying macrophages and the function of their EVs in bone regeneration remain unclear. In this study, EVs from EPO‐stimulated macrophages (EPO‐EVs) are isolated, and they are encapsulated in a chitosan/β‐sodium glycerophosphate/gelatin (CS/β‐GP/gelatin) hydrogel to create a controlled‐release EVs delivery system for localized periodontal environment. EPO‐EVs restore the osteogenic function of mouse BMSCs (mBMSCs) and mitigate inflammatory bone loss in a periodontitis mouse model. Mechanistically, miR‐5107‐5p, significantly enriched in EPO‐EVs, is delivered to mBMSCs, where it suppresses epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression and alleviates EGFR's inhibitory effect on RhoA. This process counteracts osteogenic inhibition in inflammatory settings through the EGFR/RhoA axis. Overall, EVs from EPO pretreated macrophages restore the osteogenic capacity of mBMSCs under inflammation by inhibiting EGFR expression, providing new insight into therapeutic mechanisms and offering a promising approach for future periodontitis treatment.
L69:Bone regeneration is largely dependent on the osteogenic capacity of endogenous bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) due to their critical involvement in bone physiology and pathology. [ 
L181:In this study, we first isolated and characterized EVs derived from EPO‐stimulated macrophages (EPO‐EVs) and subsequently incorporated them into a temperature‐sensitive CS/β‐GP/gelatin hydrogel to create the EPO‐EVs/hydrogel system. We then evaluated the effects of this system on the osteogenic differentiation of mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (mBMSCs) in vitro, as well as its ability to promote alveolar bone regeneration in a periodontitis mouse model. Sequencing analysis revealed that EPO‐EVs are highly enriched with miR‐5107‐5p, which target EGFR in mBMSCs, mitigating its inhibitory effects on osteogenesis by modulating the EGFR/RhoA signaling pathway, ultimately reducing inflammatory bone loss both in vitro and in vivo ( Scheme 
L193:The RAW 264.7 and HEK‐293 cell lines were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) and cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium (DMEM, Gibco) with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS, Gibco) and 1% penicillin/streptomycin (100 IU/mL, HyClone). mBMSCs were obtained from the femurs and tibias of 6 weeks C57BL/6J mice following previously described methods [
[113ms]
