L1:EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade negatively regulates bactericidal function of bone marrow macrophages in mice with  Staphylococcus aureus  osteomyelitis
L9:The ability of  Staphylococcus aureus  ( S .  aureus ) to survive within macrophages is a critical strategy for immune evasion, contributing to the pathogenesis and progression of osteomyelitis. However, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly characterized. This study discovered that inhibiting the MEK1/2 pathway reduced bacterial load and mitigated bone destruction in a mouse model of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis. Histological staining revealed increased phosphorylated MEK1/2 levels in bone marrow macrophages surrounding abscess in the mouse model of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis. Activation of MEK1/2 pathway and its roles in impairing macrophage bactericidal function were confirmed in primary mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). Transcriptome analysis and  in vitro  experiments demonstrated that  S .  aureus  activates the MEK1/2 pathway through EGFR signaling. Moreover, we found that excessive activation of EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade downregulates mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) levels by suppressing Chek2 expression, thereby impairing macrophage bactericidal function. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of EGFR signaling prevented upregulation of phosphorylated MEK1/2 and restored Chek2 expression in macrophages, significantly enhancing  S .  aureus  clearance and improving bone microstructure  in vivo . These findings highlight the critical role of the EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade in host immune defense against  S .  aureus , suggesting that  S .  aureus  may reduce mtROS levels by overactivating the EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade, thereby suppressing macrophage bactericidal function. Therefore, combining EGFR-MEK1/2 pathway blockade with antibiotics could represent an effective therapeutic approach for the treatment of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis.
L10:Research Article; Biology and Life Sciences; Organisms; Bacteria; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Organisms; Bacteria; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Bacteria; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Biology and Life Sciences; Microbiology; Medical Microbiology; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Microbiology; Medical Microbiology; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Medical Microbiology; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Medicine and Health Sciences; Pathology and Laboratory Medicine; Pathogens; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Pathology and Laboratory Medicine; Pathogens; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Pathogens; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Microbial Pathogens; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Bacterial Pathogens; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Staphylococcus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Staphylococcus Aureus; Biology and Life Sciences; Cell Biology; Cellular Types; Animal Cells; Blood Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Cell Biology; Cellular Types; Animal Cells; Blood Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Cellular Types; Animal Cells; Blood Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Animal Cells; Blood Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Blood Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Macrophages; Biology and Life Sciences; Cell Biology; Cellular Types; Animal Cells; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Cell Biology; Cellular Types; Animal Cells; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Cellular Types; Animal Cells; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Animal Cells; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Macrophages; Biology and Life Sciences; Immunology; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Immunology; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Macrophages; Medicine and Health Sciences; Immunology; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Immunology; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Immune Cells; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; White Blood Cells; Macrophages; Macrophages; Medicine and Health Sciences; Medical Conditions; Infectious Diseases; Bacterial Diseases; Osteomyelitis; Medical Conditions; Infectious Diseases; Bacterial Diseases; Osteomyelitis; Infectious Diseases; Bacterial Diseases; Osteomyelitis; Bacterial Diseases; Osteomyelitis; Osteomyelitis; Medicine and Health Sciences; Rheumatology; Connective Tissue Diseases; Osteomyelitis; Rheumatology; Connective Tissue Diseases; Osteomyelitis; Connective Tissue Diseases; Osteomyelitis; Osteomyelitis; Biology and Life Sciences; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Femur; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Femur; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Femur; Skeleton; Femur; Femur; Medicine and Health Sciences; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Femur; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Femur; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Femur; Skeleton; Femur; Femur; Biology and life sciences; Cell biology; Signal transduction; Cell signaling; EGFR signaling; Cell biology; Signal transduction; Cell signaling; EGFR signaling; Signal transduction; Cell signaling; EGFR signaling; Cell signaling; EGFR signaling; EGFR signaling; Medicine and Health Sciences; Diagnostic Medicine; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Diagnostic Medicine; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Bone Imaging; Research and Analysis Methods; Imaging Techniques; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Imaging Techniques; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Bone Imaging; Medicine and Health Sciences; Radiology and Imaging; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Radiology and Imaging; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Diagnostic Radiology; Bone Imaging; Bone Imaging; Research and Analysis Methods; Animal Studies; Experimental Organism Systems; Model Organisms; Mouse Models; Animal Studies; Experimental Organism Systems; Model Organisms; Mouse Models; Experimental Organism Systems; Model Organisms; Mouse Models; Model Organisms; Mouse Models; Mouse Models; Research and Analysis Methods; Model Organisms; Mouse Models; Model Organisms; Mouse Models; Mouse Models; Research and Analysis Methods; Animal Studies; Experimental Organism Systems; Animal Models; Mouse Models; Animal Studies; Experimental Organism Systems; Animal Models; Mouse Models; Experimental Organism Systems; Animal Models; Mouse Models; Animal Models; Mouse Models; Mouse Models; Biology and Life Sciences; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Bone; Bone Density; Bone Density; Medicine and Health Sciences; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Anatomy; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Musculoskeletal System; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Skeleton; Bone; Bone Density; Bone; Bone Density; Bone Density; Biology and Life Sciences; Anatomy; Biological Tissue; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Anatomy; Biological Tissue; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Biological Tissue; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Bone; Bone Density; Bone Density; Medicine and Health Sciences; Anatomy; Biological Tissue; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Anatomy; Biological Tissue; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Biological Tissue; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Connective Tissue; Bone; Bone Density; Bone; Bone Density; Bone Density
L15:Here, we investigated the role of MEK1/2 pathway in the pathogenesis of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis and explored how its overactivation might suppress macrophage bactericidal activity. We found phosphorylated MEK1/2 (p-MEK1/2) levels were upregulated in bone marrow macrophages during  S .  aureus  infection both  in vivo  and  in vitro . Blocking this pathway rescued bone destruction and reduced the bacterial burden in infected bones. In addition, we identified a novel function of the overactivated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-MEK1/2 cascade in suppressing mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) levels, thereby impairing macrophage bacterial clearance capacity. Our findings suggest that targeting the MEK1/2 pathway could be a promising strategy for overcoming resistance to therapy in  S .  aureus -induced osteomyelitis.
L17:Pharmacological blockade of MEK1/2 pathway alleviates bone destruction and bacterial load in femurs of mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis
L18:Recent studies have documented that activation of the MEK1/2 pathway represents a crucial signal transducer in response to viral or bacterial infection, leading to inflammatory responses and tissue injury [ 18 , 19 ]. To investigate whether pharmacological blocking of the MEK1/2 pathway can inhibit the pathogenesis of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis, we treated mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis using PD0325901, an MEK1/2 inhibitor, in combination with gentamicin. As revealed by micro-CT imaging, PD0325901-treated mice exhibited significantly reduced cortical bone loss compared with vehicle-treated mice ( Fig 1A and 1B ). In addition, PD0325901-treated mice showed significant improvements in bone mineral density (BMD) and bone volume/tissue volume (BV/TV) in the distal femora compared with vehicle-treated mice ( Fig 1C and 1D ). Further analysis showed that the improved BV/TV in PD0325901-treated mice was mainly due to rescued trabecular number (Tb.N) and a significantly decreased trabecular bone pattern factor (Tb.Pf), with no obvious changes in the trabecular thickness (Tb.Th) ( Fig 1E–1G ). Consistent with these microstructural changes, H&E staining showed severe loss of trabecular bone density, empty lacunae in remaining trabeculae in distal femoral metaphysis, fibroblastic hyperplasia in peri-implant bone marrow, and extensive reactive new bone formation around cortical bone in femurs of vehicle-treated mice. In contrast, PD0325901-treated mice exhibited significantly improved bone morphology and structure with limited pathological changes around the implant ( Fig 1H ). Blind scoring of bone sections confirmed notably rescued bone destruction in  S .  aureus -infected femurs in PD0325901-treated mice compared with vehicle-treated mice ( Fig 1I ).
L19:Fig 1 Inhibition of MEK1/2 alleviates bone destruction and reduces bacterial burden in bone of mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis. (A) Representative 3D and 2D micro-CT images and quantitative analysis of cortical bone loss (B), trabecular bone mineral density (BMD) (C), bone fraction (BV/TV) (D), trabecular thickness (Tb.Th) (E), trabecular number (Tb.N) (F), and trabecular bone pattern factor (Tb.Pf) (G). n = 5/group. (H) Representative images of H&E staining. Blue arrows indicate trabecular bone with empty lacunae, double orange arrows show fibroblastic hyperplasia in peri-implant bone marrow, and black arrows show reactive new bone formation around cortical bone. Scale bars, 100 μm. (I) Quantitative analysis of histopathological changes using the scoring system established by Smeltzer et al [ 51 ]. n = 8/group, Mann-Whitney test. (J) Representative images and (K) Quantification of immunofluorescence for  S .  aureus -positive staining area in femurs in  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis mice treated with PD0325901 (0.2 mg/kg/day) or the same volume of vehicle (5% DMSO). Scale bars, 200 μm. n = 5/group. (L) Representative images and (M) Quantification of  S .  aureus  colonies growing on an agar plate after being recovered from the femur. 10 μl of  S .  aureus  suspension diluted in PBS (1: 500) was placed and cultured on LB agar plates for 24 h at 37°C. n = 5/group. * p  < 0.05, ** p  < 0.01, *** p  < 0.001, statistical significance was analyzed by Student’s  t  test.
L20:The observation that PD0325901 treatment alleviated bone destruction in mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis suggested that blocking the MEK1/2 pathway may reduce bacterial burden in bone. In support of this hypothesis, immunofluorescence assays showed significantly lower amounts of  S .  aureus -positive staining in bone marrow of PD0325901-treated mice compared with vehicle-treated mice ( Fig 1J and 1K ). In addition, classical culture-based analysis revealed a significant decrease in bacterial CFU per gram of bone tissue in infected femurs in PD0325901-treated mice compared with vehicle-treated mice ( Fig 1L and 1M ). Taken together, these results suggest that overactivation of the MEK1/2 pathway may impair antibacterial defense.
L21:Phosphorylation of MEK1/2 in macrophages is upregulated in mouse femurs following  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis
L22:MEK1/2 is typically activated via serine phosphorylation by upstream activator kinases [ 20 ]. To assess the effect of  S .  aureus  infection on MEK1/2 activity, we analyzed the levels of phosphorylated MEK1/2 (p-MEK1/2) in mouse femurs 14 days post-infection. Immunostaining results revealed a notably elevated level of p-MEK1/2, mainly located in cells surrounding the abscess in bone marrow ( Fig 2A and 2B ). Since neutrophils are the main immune cells in infectious nidus, surrounded by macrophages [ 21 ], we examined p-MEK1/2 expression in F4/80 +  cells using immunofluorescence staining. Our data clearly showed a significant increase in F4/80 + p-MEK1/2 +  cells in bone marrow away from abscess in  S .  aureus -infected right femurs compared with control mice ( Fig 2C and 2D ). Notably, p-MEK1/2 levels were predominantly upregulated in F4/80 +  macrophages surrounding the abscess ( Fig 2C and 2D ). Moreover, the levels of F4/80 + p-MEK1/2 +  cells in the left femoral bone marrow (the contralateral side of surgery and infection) of  S .  aureus -infected mice were comparable to those in control mice ( S1 Fig ). These data suggest that the MEK1/2 pathway is primarily activated in F4/80 +  macrophages surrounding the abscess.
L23:Fig 2 The phosphorylation level of MEK1/2 is upregulated in macrophages surrounding bone marrow abscesses in mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis. (A) Representative images and (B) Quantification of immunohistochemistry staining for phosphorylated MEK1/2 (p-MEK1/2). Scale bars, 50 μm (upper panels) and 20 μm (lower panels). n = 4/group, *** p  < 0.001, Student’s  t  test. (C) Representative images of immunofluorescence staining for F4/80 +  (red) and p-MEK1/2 +  (green) cells in femurs of  S .  aureus  mice and controls, and (D) Quantification of the number of F4/80 +  p-MEK1/2 +  cells in right femurs infected with  S .  aureus  and treated with vehicle from mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis and control, respectively. The number of F4/80 + p-MEK1/2 +  cells in the region around and away from abscess in right femurs of  S .  aureus -infected mice was quantified. Scale bars, 50 μm. n = 5/group. * p  < 0.05, *** p  < 0.001, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test.
L25:We next investigated whether  S .  aureus  might activate the MEK1/2 pathway in primary cultures of BMDMs. Western blot analysis revealed that  S .  aureus  upregulated p-MEK1/2 levels in BMDMs in a concentration-dependent manner after 30 min ( Fig 3A and 3B ). This observation suggests that the MEK1/2 pathway in macrophages may be rapidly activated in response to  S .  aureus  infection.
L26:Fig 3 Persistent  S .  aureus  infection results in suppressed mtROS levels and impaired bactericidal ability by activating the MEK1/2 pathway in BMDMs. (A) Representative images and (B) Quantification of western blots for phosphorylated MEK1/2 (p-MEK1/2) and total MEK1/2 levels in BMDMs. Cells were infected with  S .  aureus  at a series dilution of multiplicity of infection (MOI, 0.01, 0.1, 1, and 10) for 30 min. n = 8/group, *  p < 0.05, *** p <0.01 versus control. One-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test was used. (C) Quantification of  S .  aureus  colonies for phagocytosis assay. BMDMs were pretreated with 1 μM PD0325901 or vehicle (DMSO) for 1 h, followed by  S .  aureus  infection at MOI of 10 for 1 h. n = 8/group. (D) Quantification of  S .  aureus  colonies for the bactericidal assay. BMDMs were infected with  S .  aureus  at MOI of 10 for 1h. After removing non-phagocytosed extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 1 μM PD0325901 or vehicle (DMSO), collected, and lysed at the indicated time points. n = 8/group. *  p  < 0.05, ***  p  < 0.001, Student’s  t  test. (E) Representative images of MitoTracker Green and MitoSOX Red fluorescence in  S .  aureus -infected BMDMs in the presence of 1 μM PD0325901 or vehicle (DMSO) for 12 h and 24 h. Scale bars, 10 μm. (F) Quantification of relative level of MitoSOX Red to MitoTracker Green. n = 8/group. *  p  < 0.05, **  p  < 0.01, Student’s  t  test. (G) Representative images of western blot for NOX2 and (H) quantification of NOX2 levels normalized to β-Actin. n = 5/group. *  p  < 0.05, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test was used.
L27:We then assessed whether overactivation of the MEK1/2 pathway affects macrophage function during  S .  aureus  infection. Blocking the MEK1/2 pathway with PD0325901 did not affect the phagocytic ability of BMDMs (Figs  3C  and  S2A ). Importantly, the bacterial killing assay demonstrated that PD0325901 significantly reduced intracellular bacterial burden in BMDMs at indicated time points post-infection (Figs  3D  and  S2B ), indicating enhanced bactericidal function of macrophages with MEK1/2 pathway inhibition.
L28:Given the critical role of mtROS in the bactericidal function of macrophages [ 22 ], and our recent finding of a notable reduction in mtROS levels 12 h and 24 h post-infection [ 23 ], we determined whether inhibiting MEK1/2 pathway affects mtROS levels in macrophages. MitoTracker Green and MitoSOX staining revealed that PD0325901 treatment for 12 h or 24 h significantly increased mtROS levels in BMDMs ( Fig 3E and 3F ). These findings suggest that overactivation of the MEK1/2 pathway suppresses mtROS production, thereby impairing the bactericidal function of macrophages.
L29:Considering the crucial role of phagocyte NADPH oxidase in host defense by generating superoxide anion and other ROS molecules [ 24 , 25 ], we evaluated the effect of PD0325901 on total protein levels of NADPH oxidase components, including p22phox, NOX2/gp91phox, p47phox, p67phox, and p40phox. Surprisingly, the levels of these proteins remained unchanged after 12 and 24 h of  S .  aureus  infection ( S2C–S2H Fig ). However, PD0325901 treatment significantly upregulated NOX2 levels after 12 h and 24 h of  S .  aureus  infection ( Fig 3G and 3H ). We inferred that the ability of BMDMs to produce ROS from NADPH oxidase in phagocyte decreased to basal levels, insufficient to restrict invasion of  S .  aureus  after 12 h of persistent infection. Thus, overactivation of MEK1/2 may not only suppress mtROS production but also disrupt phagocytic ROS production in BMDMs under prolonged  S .  aureus  infection.
L32:To understand the molecular mechanism by which  S .  aureus  activates the MEK1/2 pathway, we analyzed transcriptome data from femurs of mice with  S .  aureus -induced osteomyelitis and control samples on day 14 post-infection (GEO: GSE166522) from our previous work [ 27 ]. We overlapped MAPK cascade-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and DNA repair-related DEGs in Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment, and MAPK signaling pathway-related DEGs in Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment using the Venn diagram. Results identified EGFR as a central candidate DEGs ( Fig 4A ). We then assessed EGFR signaling activity in BMDMs in response to  S .  aureus  infection. Results showed that the phosphorylation levels of EGFR were significantly upregulated by  S .  aureus  at MOI of 1 and 10 ( Fig 4B and 4C ), with activation peaking at 30 min ( S4A and S4B Fig ).
L33:Fig 4 S. aureus  activates the MEK1/2 pathway by enhancing EGFR signaling in BMDMs. (A) Venn diagram of DEGs associated with MAPK cascade and DNA repair in GO enrichment, and MAPK cascade in KEGG analysis. (B) Representative images of western blots and (C) Quantification of the ratio of phosphorylated EGFR (p-EGFR) to GAPDH in BMDMs after  S .  aureus  infection (at the indicated MOI) for 30min. n = 8/group. **  p < 0.01 versus control, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test was used. (D) Representative western blot images of p-MEK1/2 and MEK1/2 and (G) Quantification of the ratio of p-MEK1/2 to total MEK1/2 in BMDMs. Cells were pre-treated with 10 μM erlotinib or vehicle (DMSO) for 1 h, following by  S .  aureus  infection for 30 min. n = 7/group, **  p  < 0.01, ***  p  < 0.001 versus control, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test was used. (F) Quantification of  S .  aureus  colonies for phagocytosis assay. After BMDMs were pretreated with 10 μM erlotinib or vehicle (DMSO) for 1 h, cells were infected with  S .  aureus  (MOI = 10) for 1 h. n = 8/group. (G) Quantification of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for the bactericidal assay. BMDMs were infected with  S .  aureus  at MOI of 10 for 1h. After removing non-phagocytosed extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 10 μM erlotinib or vehicle (DMSO), collected, and lysed at the indicated time points. n = 8/group, *  p  < 0.05, Mann-Whitney test. (H) Quantification of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for the bactericidal assay. BMDMs were infected with  S .  aureus  at MOI of 10 for 1 h. After removing non-phagocytosed extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 10 μM erlotinib, 1 μM PD0325901, a combination of 10 μM erlotinib and 1 μM PD0325901, or vehicle (DMSO) for 12 h. n = 8/group. *  p  < 0.05, **  p  < 0.01, one-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s  post-hoc  test was used. (I) Representative images and (J) Quantification of mtROS in BMDMs detected using MitoTracker Green and MitoSOX Red. Cells were infected with  S .  aureus  (MOI = 10) for 1 h. After removing non-phagocytosed extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 10 μM erlotinib, 1 μM PD0325901, a combination of 10 μM erlotinib and 1 μM PD0325901, or or vehicle (DMSO) for 12 h. Scale bars, 10 μm. n = 8/group. ***  p < 0.001, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test.
L34:Observing that  S .  aureus  activated both EGFR signaling and the MEK1/2 pathway, we hypothesized that  S .  aureus  might activate the MEK1/2 pathway through EGFR signaling. Indeed, treating BMDMs with erlotinib, an EGFR inhibitor, partially abolished MEK1/2 phosphorylation induced by  S .  aureus  ( Fig 4D and 4E ). We then determined whether overactivation of EGFR signaling was associated with macrophage dysfunction. Erlotinib treatment did not affect the phagocytic ability of BMDMs (Figs  4F  and  S4C ), but notably enhanced the bacterial killing rate of cells after 12 h of infection (Figs  4G  and  S4D ). Consistent with functional rescue, erlotinib treatment also restored mtROS to higher levels after 12 h and 24 h of  S .  aureus  infection ( S4E and S4F Fig ).
L35:Next, we evaluated whether combining erlotinib and PD0325901 might further enhance the bactericidal function of BMDMs after 12 h of infection. Unexpectedly, we did not observe a synergistic effect (Figs  4H  and  S4G ). Additionally, MitoSOX staining showed that both PD0325901 and erlotinib treatment upregulated mtROS levels, but their combination did not further increase mtROS levels after 12 h of  S .  aureus  infection ( Fig 4I and 4J ). Thus, persistent  S .  aureus  infection may suppress mtROS production, thereby restricting the bactericidal function of macrophages through the EGFR-MEK1/2-dependent pathway.
L37:Considering that TLR2 is essential for optimal innate immune defense against  S .  aureus  infection [ 30 ], we evaluated the effect of C29, a TLR2 inhibitor, on EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade activity. Western blot results showed that C29 treatment significantly blocked MEK1/2 phosphorylation as early as 15 min after  S .  aureus  challenge but had no effect on EGFR activation ( Fig 5A–5C ). These data indicate that TLR2 signaling contributes to MEK1/2 pathway activation but is not responsible for EGFR signaling activation in response to  S .  aureus  challenge. Furthermore, phagocytosis assays revealed that C29 treatment did not affect the phagocytotic activity of BMDMs (Figs  5D  and  S6A ). However, the bacterial killing assay showed that C29 treatment did not significantly affect bactericidal function at earlier time points (1 h and 4 h), but decreased bacterial killing rate and increased bacterial burden in BMDMs after 12 h of infection (Figs  5E  and  S6B ), indicating that TLR2 signaling is critical for bacterial killing activity of macrophages after persistent  S .  aureus  infection. Consistent with this finding, C29 treatment further decreased mtROS levels in BMDMs after 12 h of  S .  aureus  infection ( Fig 5F and 5G ). These data demonstrate that the EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade might play a negative feedback role in TLR2 signaling-mediated mtROS production and bacterial killing during  S .  aureus  infection.
L38:Fig 5 TLR2 signaling is not responsible for EGFR-MEK1/2 pathway-mediated bactericidal function in BMDMs. (A) Representative images and quantification of western blot for p-MEK1/2 and total MEK1/2 (B), p-EGFR and total EGFR (C) levels in BMDMs. After pretreatment with 100 μM C29 or vehicle (DMSO) for 1 h, cells were infected with  S .  aureus  at MOI of 10, and whole cell lysates were collected at the indicated time points for western blot analysis. ** p  < 0.01, *** p  < 0.001, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test. (D) Quantification of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for phagocytosis assay. BMDMs were pretreated with 100 μM C29 or vehicle (DMSO) for 1 h, followed by  S .  aureus  infection at a MOI of 10 for 1 h. n = 8/group. (E) Quantification of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for the bacterial killing assay. After removing the extracellular bacteria, BMDMs were cultured in growth media with presence or absence of 100 μM C29 for 12 h. n = 8/group, ***  p  < 0.001, Student’s  t  test. (F) Representative images and (G) Quantification of mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) levels in BMDMs. n = 8/group, *  p  < 0.05, Student’s  t  test. After removal of the extracellular  S .  aureus  and additional 12 h of culture with 100 μM C29 or vehicle (DMSO), mtROS levels were detected using MitoTracker Green and MitoSOX Red. Nuclei were stained with Hoechst 33342.
L40:To further discover how EGFR-MEK1/2 activation suppresses mtROS production upon  S .  aureus  challenge, we treated BMDMs with  S .  aureus  for 12 h for transcriptome analysis. Analysis of DEGs associated with cellular responses to environmental stimuli and regulation of DNA damage checkpoints showed that three genes were significantly downregulated ( Fig 6A and 6B ). Chek2, a central effector of DNA damage response, mediates DNA checkpoint activation under stress conditions [ 31 ]. We confirmed that  S .  aureus  infection suppressed Chek2 mRNA expression in BMDMs as early as 4 h post-infection ( Fig 6C ). The suppressed effect on Chek2 mRNA expression was alleviated by either PD0325901 or erlotinib treatment ( Fig 6D ). Immunofluorescence staining showed strikingly reduced levels of total and subcellular Chek2 in BMDMs after 12 h of  S .  aureus  infection ( Fig 6E–6H ). Notably, both PD0325901 and erlotinib treatments significantly increased Chek2 intensity in the cytoplasm and nucleus ( Fig 6E–6G ), with enhanced Chek2 localization in mitochondria ( Fig 6H ). Consistent with the effect on bactericidal function, combined treatment with PD0325901 and erlotinib did not further increase Chek2 protein levels ( Fig 6E–6H ). Considering that Chek2 activation contributes to high mtROS production [ 32 ], we evaluated the function of Chek2 in mtROS production in response to  S .  aureus  infection. Our results showed that inhibition of Chek2 by BML-277 blocked mtROS activation induced by PD0325901 or erlotinib treatment (Figs  6I and 6J ). Taken together, these results demonstrate that EGFR and MEK1/2 activation by  S .  aureus  infection reduces mtROS levels by suppressing Chek2 expression, thereby impairing macrophages’ bactericidal function.
L41:Fig 6 EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade suppresses mtROS levels by inhibiting Chek2 expression in BMDMs. (A) Venn diagram of DEGs associated with cellular response to environmental stimuli and regulation of DNA damage checkpoints. (B) Heatmap of overlapped DEGs in the Venn diagram. (C) mRNA expression of checkpoint kinase 2 (Chek2) in BMDMs. Cells were infected with  S .  aureus  (MOI = 10) for 1 h. After removal of extracellular bacteria, cells were cultured in growth media for the indicated time points. n = 3/group, ***  p  < 0.001 versus control, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test. (D) mRNA expression of Chek2 in BMDMs. After phagocytosis for 1 h and removal of the extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 10 μM erlotinib, 1 μM PD0325901 or vehicle (DMSO) for 12 h. n = 3/group, *  p  < 0.05, **  p  < 0.01, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test. (E) Representative confocal images of immunofluorescence staining for Chek2 (red) and TOM20-labeld mitochondria (green). Scale bars, 10 μm. Nuclei were stained with DAPI. (F-H) Quantification of mean fluorescence intensity (FI) of Chek2 in the field of view (FOV) (F), the FI of Chek2 in the nucleus (G) and mitochondria (H) per cell. n = 8/group, ** p  < 0.01, ***  p  < 0.001, one-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s  post-hoc  test. (I) Representative confocal images and (J) Quantification of mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) levels detected using MitoTracker Green and MitoSOX Red in BMDMs. Nuclei were stained with Hoechst 33342. After phagocytosis for 1 h and removal of the extracellular  S .  aureus , cells were treated with 5 μM BML-277 or vehicle (DMSO) with or without 1 μM PD0325901 or 10 μM erlotinib. mtROS levels were detected after 12 h of treatment. Scale bars, 20 μm. *** p  < 0.01, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test.
L42:Next, we investigated whether blocking EGFR signaling could reduce bacterial load and rescue bone destruction  in vivo . Mice with implant associated osteomyelitis were treated with erlotinib or vehicle. Immunofluorescence staining revealed upregulation of p-EGFR levels in F4/80 +  macrophages in the bone marrow of  S .  aureus -infected femurs of mice treated with vehicle, whereas erlotinib treatment suppressed it ( S7A Fig ). Importantly, erlotinib-treated mice had significantly reduced bacterial load in  S .  aureus -infected femurs compared with vehicle-treated mice ( Fig 7A and 7B ). Micro-CT imaging showed that erlotinib treatment significantly reduced reactive new bone formation around cortical bone and decreased cortical bone loss ( Fig 7C–7E ). Consistently, erlotinib-treated mice showed notably increased bone mineral density (BMD) and bone volume to total volume (BV/TV), primarily due to rescued trabecular bone number (Tb.N) ( Fig 7C and 7F–7H ). However, there were no changes in trabecular bone thickness (Tb.Th) and trabecular pattern factor (Tb.Pf) in erlotinib-treated mice compared with vehicle-treated mice ( Fig 7I and 7J ). Histological staining and histopathological score analysis confirmed the positive effect of erlotinib treatment on bone structure in mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis ( S7B and S7C Fig ). Specifically, vehicle-treated mice showed deformed femurs with extensive abscess formation in the bone cavity and loss of trabecular bone in the metaphyseal area, whereas erlotinib-treated mice had improved trabecular bone structure with limited abscess formation around the implant ( S7A Fig ). These data indicate that blocking EGFR signaling alleviates bacterial burden and improves bone structure.
L43:Fig 7 Blocking EGFR signaling reduces bacterial loading and bone microstructure in femurs infected with  S .  aureus . (A) Representative images and (B) Quantification of  S .  aureus  colonies growing on an agar plate after recovery from infected femurs. (C) Representative 3D and 2D coronal micro-CT images and quantification of reactive new bone formation (D), cortical bone loss (E), bone mineral density (BMD) (F), bone fraction (BV/TV) (G), trabecular thickness (Tb.Th) (H), trabecular number (Tb.N) (I), and trabecular bone pattern factor (Tb.Pf) (J). n = 5/group. (I) Representative images and (J) Quantification of immunofluorescence staining for F4/80 +  (red) and p-MEK1/2 +  (green) cells in  S .  aureus -infected femurs of mice treated with erlotinib and vehicle. Scale bars, 50μm. n = 5/group. (K) Representative images and (L) Quantitative analysis of F4/80 +  (red) and p-MEK1/2 +  (green) cells in  S .  aureus -infected femurs of mice treated with erlotinib and vehicle. Scale bars, 50μm. n = 5/group. (M) Representative images and (N) Quantitative analysis of F4/80 +  (red) and Chek2 +  (green) cells in  S .  aureus -infected femurs of mice treated with erlotinib and vehicle. Scale bars, 50μm. n = 5/group. **  p  < 0.01, ***  p  < 0.001. Statistical significance was analyzed by Student’s  t  test.
L44:To confirm the role of EGFR signaling in the MEK1/2 pathway, we evaluated its expression in vehicle- and erlotinib-treated mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis. Immunofluorescence staining showed that erlotinib treatment substantially decreased p-MEK1/2 levels in F4/80 +  cells ( Fig 7K and 7L ). We then evaluated whether inhibiting EGFR signaling could rescue Chek2 expression in macrophages. Results showed that erlotinib treatment markedly restored decreased Chek2 expression in  S .  aureus -infected femurs ( Fig 7M and 7N ). Together, our findings indicate that  S .  aureus  infection may activate EGFR-MEK1/2 signaling, thereby suppressing mitochondrial ROS levels by downregulating Chek2 expression, leading to the progression of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis in mice.
L47:Recent studies have highlighted the important role of the MEK1/2 pathway in sustaining the replication of  Salmonella  and viruses in cells [ 33 – 35 ], emphasizing the critical function of MEK1/2 overactivation in infection propagation. Similarly, our current work further reveals the critical role of the MEK1/2 pathway in suppressing the bactericidal activity of macrophages. We show that overactivation of the MEK1/2 pathway leads to reduced mtROS levels, impairing the bactericidal function of macrophages. Moreover, blocking the MEK1/2 pathway reduces bacterial load and mitigates bone destruction in mice with osteomyelitis, suggesting that targeting the MEK1/2 pathway may be a potential therapeutic approach to restore compromised immunity in chronic  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis. It is important to note that abnormal activation of this pathway has also been linked to inflammatory tissue lesions, and blocking MEK1/2 is believed to alleviate pro-inflammatory responses [ 17 , 35 , 36 ]. Contrary to this belief, we observed that blocking the MEK1/2 pathway led to further upregulation of inflammatory factors in  S .  aureus -infected BMDMs  in vitro . Therefore, the notable improvement in bone structure by blocking the MEK1/2 pathway in the femurs of mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis is likely due to the enhanced bactericidal activity of macrophages in the bone.
L48:Our finding that EGFR signaling is activated by  S .  aureus  in BMDMs is both surprising and interesting. EGFR, a transmembrane protein with tyrosine kinase activity, is ubiquitously expressed in various cells and aberrantly activated in lung cancer, colorectal cancer, and other diseases [ 37 ]. Increasing evidence supports the pivotal roles of EGFR signaling in pathogenic bacterial infection, such as invasion of  Serratia proteamaculans  into m-Hela cells [ 38 ], induction of inflammation in epithelia cells in response to  Candida albicans  infection [ 39 ], and activation of inflammatory responses in macrophages by  Helicobacter pylori  infection [ 40 ]. Our current findings reveal a novel role of EGFR signaling upon  S .  aureus  infection: its overactivation is associated with reduced bacterial killing activities in macrophages. Additionally, our studies demonstrate that activation of EGFR signaling by  S .  aureus  may lead to downregulation of mtROS levels and reduction of macrophage bactericidal function via the MEK1/2 pathway. However, the MEK1/2 pathway is also a key mediator of TLRs signaling-mediated innate immune responses [ 41 ]. Supporting this, our data indicate that TLR2 signaling is required to activate the MEK1/2 pathway in the context of  S .  aureus  infection. Although studies have reported mutual activation between EGFR and TLR signaling in the presence of microbe [ 42 , 43 ], we have not observed inhibition of EGFR signaling by blocking TLR2 during  S .  aureus  challenge. Therefore, it is reasonable to presume that EGFR and TLR2 signaling may independently regulate the MEK1/2 pathway in response to  S .  aureus  infection.
L51:The current study has extended our understanding of the critical role of EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade in the persistent infection of  S .  aureus  in macrophages. By blocking the MEK1/2 pathway both  in vivo  and  in vitro , we identified MEK1/2 as a hub pathway in negatively regulating mtROS levels and compromising the bactericidal function of bone marrow macrophages during  S .  aureus  infection. Although the precise mechanism by which the MEK1/2 pathway inhibits Chek2 expression and suppresses mtROS production requires further investigation, our data suggest that downregulation of Chek2 expression in cells contributes to reduced mtROS levels and subsequently suppressed bactericidal function of macrophages. Taken together, our findings indicate that over activation of the EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade may be a core event in suppressing bactericidal function during  S .  aureus  infection. Therefore, targeting this pathway may represent a promising avenue for breakthrough therapies for  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis.
L57:The mouse model of implant-associated  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis was established as previously described [ 27 ]. Briefly, male C57BL/6 mice aged 10–12 weeks were anaesthetized with tribromoethanol (250 mg/kg). After exposing the right femur by blunt dissection, a small hole was drilled in the mid-shaft with a 27-gauge needle. A sterilized stainless pin, 2 mm in length, was inserted through the hole, followed by slow injection of 2 μl  S .  aureus  suspension (1×10 5  CFU/ml) or PBS (control group) into the intramedullary canal. The hole was seamed with bone wax, the incision was sutured and disinfected.
L58:To evaluate the effect of MEK1/2 blocking on the progression of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis in mice,  S .  aureus -infected mice were randomly assigned to treatment with PD0325901 (0.2 mg/kg/day, i.p., #S1036, Selleck) or vehicle (5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) in normal saline) from day 5 post-infection. To assess the role of EGFR signaling in the pathogenesis of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis in mice,  S .  aureus -infected mice were randomly treated with erlotinib (10 mg/kg/day, i.p., #HY-1208, MCE) or vehicle (10% DMSO in corn oil) from day 5 post-infection. Gentamicin at 10 mg/kg had a poor killing effect on intracellular  S .  aureus  in a mouse model of peritonitis [ 49 ], and our recent work showed that a substantial amount of  S .  aureus  resides in  Lyz2 +  macrophages in the bone marrow of osteomyelitis mice treated with gentamicin at a dose of 20 mg/kg/d [ 50 ]. To investigate the role and mechanism of intracellular  S .  aureus  in pathogenesis of osteomyelitis, all mice were treated with gentamicin (20 mg/kg/day, i.p.) from day 1 post-surgery to reduce the extracellular burden of  S .  aureus  in infected femurs. The mice were euthanized on day 14 after surgery, and their implanted right femurs were collected for further analysis.
L60:For immunohistochemistry staining, femurs were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde overnight, decalcified in 10% ethylenediamenetetraacetic acid (EDTA) solution for 10 days, and processed for paraffin-embedding. Four-μm-thick sections were placed on glass slide, deparaffinized, and rehydrated before antigen retrieval. Endogenous peroxidase activity was blocked by incubating sections in a 0.3% (v/v) hydrogen peroxide solution for 15 min. After blocking with goat serum for 1 h at room temperature, sections were incubated with phospho-MEK1/2 antibody (AF3385, Affinity, China) overnight at 4°C. Samples were then incubated in HRP-conjugated goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody (HA1001, Huabio, China) for 1 h. Peroxidase activity was revealed using a 3,3’-diaminobenzidine (DAB) kit (ZLI-9018, ZSGB-BIO, China) and nuclei were counterstained with hematoxylin (H-3404-100, Vector, USA). Image pro plus 6.0 was used to analyze the integrated optical density of p-MEK1/2 in the bone marrow.
L64:Bone destruction and new bone formation were assessed using micro-CT imaging with Skyscan (Bruker, New York, USA). Each femur was imaged at a pixel size of 9 μm, with a voltage of 70 kV, a current of 145 mA, and an integration time of 300 ms. The 3D reconstruction images were processed using Image Processing Language V5.15 software. To evaluate cortical bone destruction and reactive bone formation, the region of interest (ROI) was centered in the middle of the femur, where the pin was implanted. To analyze changes in trabecular bone microstructure in the distal femur, the lower border was set 0.5 mm away from the growth plate, and the upper border was defined as 2 mm from this position longitudinally. Parameters such as cortical bone loss, reactive new bone formation, bone mineral density (BMD), bone volume/tissue volume (BV/TV), trabecular thickness (Tb.Th), trabecular number (Tb.N) and trabecular bone pattern factor (Tb.Pf) were measured using SkyScan1176 software.
L66:Tibias and femurs were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde for 48 h, decalcified in 10% EDTA solution for 10 days, and processed for paraffin-embedding. Hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining was performed following standard procedures. Histopathological signs of osteomyelitis were scored using the methods described by Smeltzer et al. [ 51 ], based on the presence of acute intraosseous inflammation, chronic intraosseous inflammation, periosteal inflammation, and bone necrosis, each graded on a scale of 0–4.
L67:Bacterial burdens in implanted-femurs
L68:Fourteen days post-infection, mice were anaesthetized with tribromoethanol (250 mg/kg) and euthanized by cervical dislocation, implanted femurs were dissected free of soft tissue, and after removal of intramedullary implants, femurs were homogenized in 1 ml PBS.  S .  aureus  burdens were determined by plating serial dilutions of homogenate on TSA plates. After 12 h of incubation at 37°C, bacterial colonies were imaged and counted using ImageJ software (V1.8.0, National Institute of Health).
L69:Isolation and culture of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs)
L70:BMDMs were prepared from 8–10 weeks old C57BL/6 mice following established protocols [ 23 ]. Mice were euthanized by cervical dislocation, and bone marrow cells were flushed from the femora and tibiae. After lysis of red blood cells with ACK lysis buffer, bone marrow cells were cultured and differentiated in RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 30% L929 conditioned medium, 10% fetal bovine serum, and 1% penicillin/streptomycin. Cells were seeded at a density of 2.0×10 6 /ml in 12-well or 6-well plates for 7 days, with medium refresh every 2 days. On day 8 of differentiation, the cells were treated for further analysis.
L72:To evaluate upstream signals involved in activating MEK1/2 pathway of BMDMs in response to  S .  aureus  challenge, cells were pretreated with 5 μM ML130, 5 μM GSK717, 0.5 μM GSK2983559, 10 μM NOD-IN-1, 5 μM CU-CPT9a, 1 μM E6446, or the same volume of vehicle (DMSO, final dilution ratio: 1/1000) for 1 h, followed by  S .  aureus  (MOI = 10) infection. Control cells were treated with DMSO (1/1000) for 1 h, followed by PBS (vehicle for  S .  aureus  suspension, 7.5% in medium) for 30 min. Cells were lysed with radio immunoprecipitation assay (RIPA) lysis buffer, and whole-cell lysates were harvested. Protein samples were separated on 10% SDS-polyacrylamide gels by electrophoresis, transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membranes, and blocked with 5% skim milk. Blots were incubated with one of the following primary antibodies overnight at 4°C. The primary antibodies used in this study were rabbit anti-MEK1/2 (phosphor-S218/222) (ET1609, HUABIO, China), rabbit anti-MEK1/2 (8727T, CST, USA), rabbit anti-Phospho (Y1092)-EGFR (ET1606-44, Huabio, Hangzhou, China), mouse anti-p-Tyr (PY20) (sc-508, Santa Cruz, USA), rabbit anti-EGFR (ET1603-37, Huabio, Hangzhou, China), rabbit anti-NOX2 (19013-1-AP, Proteintech, Wuhan, China), rabbit anti-p22 (DF10099, Affinity, China), rabbit anti-p47 (AF5220, Affinity, China), rabbit anti-phospho-p47 (CSB-PA050089, CUSABIO, Wuhan, China), rabbit anti-p67 (15551-1-AP, Proteintech, Wuhan, China), rabbit anti-p40 (DF6820, Affinity, China), mouse anti-β-Actin (66009-1-lg, Proteintech, Wuhan, China), and rabbit anti-GAPDH (ET1601-4, Huabio, Hangzhou, China). Next, blots were incubated with HRP-conjugated Goat anti-Rabbit secondary antibody (HA1001, Huabio, Hangzhou, China) or HRP-conjugated Goat anti-Mouse IgG (HA1006, Huabio, Hangzhou, China) for 1 hour at room temperature. Chemiluminescent signals were developed in Immubilon Western Chemilum HRP substrate (WBKLS0500, Merck Millipore, Germany), and detected with a BLT multifunctional imaging station (GelView 6000 Pro, Biolight Biotechnology Co. Guangzhou, China). Band intensities were quantified using ImageJ software (V1.8.0, National Institute of Health). The band intensities of each protein were normalized to GAPDH or β-Actin.
L74:To measure phagocytosis, BMDMs were pretreated with 1 μM PD0325901 (S1036, Selleck, China), 10 μM erlotinib (HY-50896, MedChemExpress, China), 100 μM C29 (HY-100461, MedChemExpress, China), or the same volume of vehicle (DMSO, final dilution ratio: 1/1000) for 1 h. Subsequently, the BMDMs were incubated with  S .  aureus  at multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 10 for an additional 1 h. After washing with PBS, non-phagocytosed bacteria were eliminated using 20 μg/mL lysostaphin and 50 μg/mL gentamicin. Cells were then lysed in 0.1% (v/v) Triton-100, and serial dilutions were plated on TSA plates to enumerate bacterial colonies.
L75:For evaluating intracellular bacterial killing capacity, after the removal of extracellular bacteria, infected BMDMs were cultured in medium containing 1% penicillin & streptomycin for 1, 4 or 12 h, with or without 1 μM PD0325901, 10 μM erlotinib, or 100 μM C29. At the indicated time points, cells were lysed, and diluted aliquots were spread on TSA plates. Bacterial colonies were counted after overnight incubation at 37°C.
L79:Our previous RNA sequencing data from femurs of mice with  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis and controls, deposited in Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (assessing number: GSE166522) were analyzed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) ( p  value < 0.05, and │Log 2 (fold change)│>1) were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses using clusterProfiler R package (Version 3.6.2). GO and KEGG terms with adjusted  p  values of < 0.05 were considered significant enrichment.
L80:For RNA sequencing in BMDMs, cells were infected with  S .  aureus  at a MOI of 10 for 1 h, followed by treatment with 20 μg/mL lysostaphin and 50 μg/mL gentamicin to remove extracellular bacteria. After three washes with PBS, BMDMs were cultured for an additional 24 h. Afterwards, cells were washed with PBS, lysed in Trizol (9108, Takara, Japan), and sent to OmicShare (Guangzhou, China) for next-generation sequencing. RNA was quality-assessed with Agilent 2100 (Agilent, USA) using RNA 6000 Nano kit (5067–1511, Agilent, USA), with RNA integrity number above 9 for library construction. RNA samples from three independent experiments were used for library construction following the protocol of Illumina NovaSeq 6000 platform and sequenced using a Thermal Cycler (Eastwin, Suzhou, China) with HighSensitivity DNA assay Kit (5067–4626, Agilent, USA). FASTq sequencing files were aligned to the mouse reference genome (GRCm38, mm10) using STAR aligner for further analysis. DEGs between  S .  aureus  infected and control BMDMs were identified using limma package (3.54.0). GO analysis of DEGs ( p  value < 0.05, and │Log 2 (fold change)│>1) was performed with the clusterProfiler package (Version 4.7.1) in R platform (Version 4.2.3,  https://www.r-project.org/ ). Terms with adjusted  p  values < 0.05 were considered significantly enriched. Heatmap was plotted using the pheatmap R package (version 1.0.12).
L84:S1 Fig Expression levels of phosphorylated MEK1/2 (p-MEK1/2) in left femurs of  S .  aureus  osteomyelitis mice and control mice. (A) Representative images of immunofluorescence staining for F4/80 +  (red) and p-MEK1/2 +  (green) cells in femoral bone marrow. (B) Quantification of the number of F4/80 + p-MEK1/2 +  cells in the field of view. Scale bars, 50 μm. n = 5/group, Student’s  t  test. (TIF)
L85:S2 Fig PD0325901 treatment enhances the bactericidal function of BMDMs against  S .  aureus . (A) Representative images of  S .  aureus  colonies for phagocytosis assay. (B) Representative images of  S .  aureus  colonies for the bactericidal assay. (C) Representative western blot images and (D) Quantification of relative levels of p22phox, p-p47phox, p47phox, p67phox, and p40phox. n = 5/group, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test was used. (TIF)
L87:S4 Fig Inhibition of EGFR signaling restores mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) production and increases bactericidal function. (A) Representative images of western blots and (B) Quantification of p-EGFR levels relative to total EGFR in BMDMs infected by  S .  aureus  (MOI = 10) for the indicated time. n = 7/group. *  p  < 0.05 versus control, one-way ANOVA with Tukey’s  post-hoc  test used. BMDMs were pretreated with 10 μM erlotinib or vehicle (DMSO) for 1h, followed by  S .  aureus  challenge for the indicated time. (C) Representative image of  S .  aureus  colonies for phagocytosis assay. (D) Representative images of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for the bactericidal assay. BMDMs were infected with  S .  aureus  at MOI of 10 for 1 h. After removing non-phagocytosed extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 10 μM erlotinib or vehicle (DMSO) for the indicated time points. (E) Representative images and (F) Quantification of mtROS in BMDMs detected using MitoTracker Green and MitoSOX Red. Nuclei were stained with Hoechst 33342. Cells were infected with  S .  aureus  (MOI = 10) for 1 h. After removing non-phagocytosed extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 10 μM erlotinib or vehicle (DMSO) for 12 h and 24 h. Scale bars, 10 μm. n = 3/group. **  p  < 0.01, Student’s  t  test was used. (G) Representative images of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for the bactericidal assay. (TIF)
L88:S5 Fig The effect of blocking MEK1/2 and EGFR signaling on the mRNA expression of IL-1β (A), IL-6 (B), and TNF-α (C). BMDMs were infected with  S .  aureus  at MOI of 10 for 1 h. After removing non-phagocytosed extracellular bacteria, cells were treated with 10 μM erlotinib, 1 μM PD0325901, or vehicle for 12 h. n = 8/group, *  p  < 0.05, **  p  < 0.01, one-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s  post-hoc  test used. (TIF)
L89:S6 Fig Blocking TLR2 does not affect phagocytosis but suppresses the bactericidal function of BMDMs. (A) Representative image of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for phagocytosis assay. (B) Representative images of intracellular colonies of  S .  aureus  for bacterial killing assay. (TIF)
L90:S7 Fig Blocking EGFR signaling improves bone structure in  S .  aureus -infected femurs. (A) Representative images of immunofluorescence staining for p-EGFR in F4/80 +  macrophages in the right femoral bone marrow of  S .  aureus -infected mice treated with erlotinib or vehicle, and control mice without infection. (B) Representative images of H&E staining for  S .  aureus -infected femurs from mice treated with erlotinib and vehicle. (C) Quantification of histopathological changes using the scoring system established by Smeltzer et al [ 51 ]. Blue arrows show trabecular bone with empty lacunae, green arrows show erosion in cortical bone, and black arrows show reactive new bone formation around cortical bone. Scale bar, 100 μm. n = 5/group, ** p  < 0.05, Mann Whitney test. (TIF)
L862:| col_0 | str | 2 | Control-Left femurs, S. aureus-Left femurs |
L1073:The manuscript “EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade negatively regulates bactericidal function of bone marrow
L1086:upregulated predominantly in F4/80 [+] macrophages surrounding the abscess”. Did you investigate pMEK1/2 levels in F4/80 [+] macrophages away from the abscess, for example in the left femur of the _S._
L1122:The manuscript written by Wu, X. et al. submitted to Plos Pathogens studies the role of the EGFR/MEK pathway in S. aureus killing by macrophages and conclude that the bacterium upregulates this signaling pathway to increase its survival within macrophages that likely contributes to its persistent infection seen in osteomyelitis. The authors established an in vivo model of S. aureus osteomyelitis in mice and showcase the beneficial in vivo effects of the MEK inhibitor, PD0325901. The report also investigates the role of EGFR, mitoROS and Chek2, a positive regulator for mtROS production. The data are interesting and represent a novel mechanism by which S. aureus seems to promote its persistence in host macrophages. However, the detailed signaling mechanism is largely based on in vitro experiments using BMDMs infected with S. aureus. Additional in vivo experiments focusing on key points of the signaling mechanisms revealed in vitro would further increase the impact of the work. Also, exploring phagosomal, not mitochondrial, ROS production is missing and is needed to understand the whole picture. Please find below my major and minor comments.
L1126:- Data shown in Figures 3C and D were only done three times and show a wide spread. Therefore, more experiments should be performed to support the authors’ related claim that the PD inhibitor does not affect S. aureus phagocytosis by BMDMs.
L1140:The manuscript “EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade negatively regulates bactericidal function of bone marrow macrophages in mice with Staphylococcus aureus osteomyelitis” by Wu et al. investigates the role of the MEK1/2 pathway in a Staphylococcus aureus osteomyelitis in a mouse infection model, along with transcriptomic analysis and in vitro methodology. They demonstrate that S. aureus osteomyelitis infection in mice activates the EGFR-MEK1/2 cascade resulting in a reduction in mtROS levels, dampening the bactericidal abilities of macrophages. This has interesting potential if blocking such pathways can be combined with antibiotic treatment in vivo, but further research is required to establish this. In general this is a thoroughly researched manuscript but in my opinion requires revisions before accepting for publication, including expanding upon how some conclusions have been made. A lot of data is shown but I suggest some of it can be moved to supplementary figures to make the main figures clearer to interpret. My comments to the authors are detailed below.
L1141:Response: We appreciate the reviewer’s positive comments and constructive suggestions. We have evaluated the role of EGFR signaling and its interaction with MEK1/2 in regulating bactericidal function, mtROS production, and Chek2 expression in primary BMDMs. Additionally, we assessed the effect of pharmacological inhibition of EGFR signaling on the expression of MEK1/2-Chek2 axis, bacterial load in infected femurs, and alterations of bone microstructure in S. aureus osteomyelitis mouse model. Our in vitro and in vivo data indicate that overactivation of the EGFR-MEK1/2 pathway may reduce mtROS levels by suppressing Chek2 expression in macrophages, impairing macrophage bactericidal function, and promoting S. aureus osteomyelitis pathogenesis in mice.
L1145:The manuscript written by Wu, X. et al. submitted to Plos Pathogens studies the role of the EGFR/MEK pathway in S. aureus killing by macrophages and conclude that the bacterium upregulates this signaling pathway to increase its survival within macrophages that likely contributes to its persistent infection seen in osteomyelitis. The authors established an in vivo model of S. aureus osteomyelitis in mice and showcase the beneficial in vivo effects of the MEK inhibitor, PD0325901. The report also investigates the role of EGFR, mitoROS and Chek2, a positive regulator for mtROS production. The data are interesting and represent a novel mechanism by which S. aureus seems to promote its persistence in host macrophages. However, the detailed signaling mechanism is largely based on in vitro experiments using BMDMs infected with S. aureus. Additional in vivo experiments focusing on key points of the signaling mechanisms revealed in vitro would further increase the impact of the work. Also, exploring phagosomal, not mitochondrial, ROS production is missing and is needed to understand the whole picture. Please find below my major and minor comments.
L1146:Response: We appreciate the reviewer’s positive comments and helpful suggestions. As suggested by the reviewer, we investigated whether blocking EGFR signaling could reduce bacterial load and rescue bone destruction, and examined changes in p-MEK1/2 and Chek2 expression in F4/80+ macrophages in S. aureus osteomyelitis mouse model. In primary BMDMs, we evaluated expression levels of phagocyte NADPH oxidase components after persistent S. aureus infection and the effect of MEK1/2 pathway inhibition on their expression. The data are summarized the new figures detailed in Part II.
L1154:Response: We evaluated the effect of erlotinib and C29 on bactericidal function at multiple time points, as suggested by the reviewer. Our results showed that both erlotinib and C29 treatment had no significant effect on bactericidal function at earlier time points of infection (1 h and 4 h). After 12 h of infection, erlotinib notably enhanced the bacterial killing rate of the BMDMs (Figure 4G, Figure S4D), whereas C29 treatment decreased the bacterial killing rate and increased the bacterial burden in BMDMs (Figure 5E, Figure S6B). These new data have been incorporated into the manuscript. (Lines 210-211, 238-240)
L1156:Response: We thank the reviewer for this constructive suggestion. We assessed the effect of a combination of erlotinib and PD0325901 on bacterial killing, mtROS production, and Chek2 expression in BMDMs, following the reviewer’s suggestion.
L1157:We evaluated whether combining erlotinib and PD0325901 could further enhance the bactericidal function of BMDMs after 12 h of infection. Unexpectedly, no synergistic effect was observed (Figure 4H, Figure S4G). MitoSOX staining showed that both PD0325901 and erlotinib treatment upregulated mtROS levels, but their combination did not further increase mtROS levels after 12 h of S. aureus infection (Figure 4I and 4J). Similarly, combined treatment with PD0325901 and erlotinib did not further increase Chek2 protein levels (Figure 6E-6H). New data and figures have been incorporated into the manuscript. (Lines 214-218, 260-262)
L1159:1. Figure 2: In lines 144-146 you state “Our data clearly showed that the levels of p-MEK1/2 were upregulated predominantly in F4/80+ macrophages surrounding the abscess”. Did you investigate p-MEK1/2 levels in F4/80+ macrophages away from the abscess, for example in the left femur of the S. aureus infected mice, to support your statement that MEK1/2 levels are increased specifically at the abscess site? Please include this data if so, otherwise adjust your conclusions accordingly to e.g. “Our data clearly showed that the levels of p-MEK1/2 were upregulated in F4/80+ macrophages of S. aureus infected mice compared to uninfected controls”.
L1160:Response: We thank the reviewer for this constructive comment. We have evaluated p-MEK1/2 levels in F4/80+ macrophages in both right femurs (surgery and infected side) and left femurs (contralateral side) of mice with S. aureus osteomyelitis and control ones. Specifically, we quantified the number of F4/80+p-MEK1/2+ cells in the area around the abscess and away from the abscess in the right femurs of S. aureus-infected mice and in left femoral bone marrow in the field of view were quantified.
L1161:Our data showed a significant increase in F4/80+p-MEK1/2+ cells in the bone marrow away from the abscess in the S. aureus-infected right femurs compared with control mice (Figure 2C and 2D). Notably, p-MEK1/2 levels were predominantly upregulated in F4/80+ macrophages surrounding the abscess (Figure 2C and 2D). The levels of F4/80+p-MEK1/2+ cells in the left femoral bone marrow (contralateral side of the surgery and infection) of S. aureus-infected mice were comparable to those in control mice (Figure S1). These data suggest that MEK1/2 pathway is primarily activated in F4/80+ macrophages surrounding the abscess. New data have been incorporated into the manuscript. (Lines 142-149, 771-776)
L1164:Response: We thank the reviewer for pointing out this issue. We evaluated the inhibitory effect of erlotinib on EGFR signaling in vivo using immunofluorescence staining. Compared with control mice without infection, there was extensive p-EGFR expression in F4/80+ macrophages in the bone marrow of S. aureus-infected femurs of mice treated with vehicle. As expected, p-EGFR level was considerably suppressed in S. aureus-infected femurs of mice treated with erlotinib (Figure S7A). This effect has been addressed in the manuscript. (Lines 271-273)
L1166:Response: Thank the reviewer for this constructive suggestion. To assess the role of EGFR signaling in the pathogenesis of S. aureus osteomyelitis in mice, S. aureus-infected mice were randomly subjected to treatment with erlotinib (10 mg/kg/day, i.p., #HY-1208, MCE) or vehicle (10% DMSO in corn oil) from day 5 post-infection. All mice were treated with gentamicin (20 mg/kg/day, i.p.) from day 1 post-surgery to reduce extracellular S. aureus burden in the infected femurs. Mice were euthanized on day 14 after surgery, and their implanted right femurs were collected for further analysis.
L1167:We observed that erlotinib-treated mice had significantly reduced bacterial load in S. aureus-infected femurs compared with vehicle-treated mice (Figure 7A and 7B). Micro-CT imaging showed that erlotinib treatment significantly reduced reactive new bone formation around cortical bone and decreased cortical bone loss (Figure 7C-7E). Consistently, erlotinib-treated mice showed notably increased bone mineral density (BMD) and the ratio of bone volume to total volume (BV/TV), primarily due to rescued trabecular bone number (Tb.N) (Figure 7C, 7F-7H). However, there were no changes in trabecular bone thickness (Tb.Th) and trabecular pattern factor (Tb.Pf) in erlotinib-treated mice compared with vehicle-treated ones (Figure 7I and 7J). Histological staining and histopathological scoring analysis confirmed the positive effect of erlotinib treatment on bone structure in mice with S. aureus osteomyelitis (Figure S7B and S7C). Specifically, vehicle-treated mice showed deformed femurs with extensive abscess formation in the bone cavity and loss of trabecular bone in the metaphyseal area, whereas erlotinib-treated mice had improved trabecular bone structure with limited abscess formation around the implant (Figure S7A). These data indicate that blocking EGFR signaling alleviates bacterial burden and improves bone structure.
L1168:To confirm the role of EGFR signaling in the MEK1/2 pathway, we evaluated its expression in vehicle- and erlotinib-treated mice with S. aureus osteomyelitis. Immunofluorescence staining showed that erlotinib treatment substantially decreased p-MEK1/2 levels in F4/80+ cells (Figure 7K and 7L). We then evaluated whether inhibiting EGFR signaling could rescue Chek2 expression in macrophages. Results showed that erlotinib treatment markedly restored the decreased expression of Chek2 in S. aureus-infected femurs (Figure 7M and 7N). Together, our findings indicate that S. aureus infection may activate EGFR-MEK1/2 signaling, thereby suppressing mitochondrial ROS levels by downregulating Chek2 expression, leading to the progression of S. aureus osteomyelitis in mice.
L1171:Response: We thank the reviewer for this constructive suggestion. Considering the crucial role of phagocyte NADPH oxidase in host defense by generating superoxide anion and other ROS molecules [24, 25], we evaluated the effect of PD0325901 on the total protein levels of NADPH oxidase components, including p22phox, NOX2/gp91phox, p47phox, p67phox, and p40phox. Surprisingly, the levels of these protein remained unchanged after 12 and 24 h of S. aureus infection (Figure S2C-S2H). However, PD0325901 treatment significantly upregulated NOX2 levels after 12 h and 24 h of S. aureus infection (Figure 3G and 3H). We inferred that the ability of BMDMs to produce ROS from phagocyte NADPH oxidase decreased to basal levels, insufficient for restricting S. aureus invasion after 12 h of persistent infection. Thus, overactivation of MEK1/2 may not only suppress mtROS production but also disrupt phagocytic ROS production in BMDMs under prolonged S. aureus infection. New data have been incorporated into the manuscript. (Lines 172-181, 793-795)
L1186:To evaluate upstream signals involved in activating MEK1/2 pathway of BMDMs in response to S. aureus challenge, cells were pretreated with 5 μM ML130, 5 μM GSK717, 0.5 μM GSK2983559, 10 μM NOD-IN-1, 5 μM CU-CPT9a, 1 μM E6446, or the same volume of vehicle (DMSO, final dilution ratio: 1/1000) for 1 h, followed by S. aureus (MOI = 10) infection. Controls cells were treated with DMSO (1/1000) for 1h, followed by PBS (vehicle for S. aureus suspension, 7.5% in medium) for 30 min. We have provided the above information in the “Materials and Methods” section. (Lines 489-494)
L1221:Response: It was reported that gentamicin at 10 mg/kg had a poor killing effect on intracellular S. aureus in a mouse model of peritonitis [50], and our recent work showed a substantial amount of S. aureus resides in Lyz2+ macrophages in the bone marrow of osteomyelitis mice treated with gentamicin at dose of 20 mg/kg/d [51]. To investigate the role and mechanism of intracellular S. aureus in pathogenesis of osteomyelitis, all mice were treated with gentamicin (20 mg/kg/day, i.p.) from day 1 post-surgery to reduce extracellular S. aureus burden in the infected femurs.  We have addressed this point in manuscript. (Lines 403-408)
L1222:5. Data shown in Figures 3C and D were only done three times and show a wide spread. Therefore, more experiments should be performed to support the authors’ related claim that the PD inhibitor does not affect S. aureus phagocytosis by BMDMs.
L1223:Response: Thank the reviewer for pointing out this issue, which is the same as the first comment raised by Reviewer #1 in Part II. We have repeated the in vitro experiments an additional 5 times using primary BMDMs isolated from different mice. Data have been added to new Figures 3B-3D, 3F, 4C, 4F-4H, 4J, 5B-5E, 5G, 6F-6H, and 6J.
[84ms]
