L16:Salmonella  infects macrophages, but how frequently this occurs or the probability that cells become infected is unknown. To calculate the infection rate of macrophages by  S.  Typhimurium, we first developed simple compartmental models representing macrophages (both infected and uninfected) and bacteria (both intracellular and extracellular) to define the basic dynamic events. These early rounds of models were extremely simplistic but served to underline ambiguities in existing knowledge. In the iterative process between models and experiments, we raised and tested a number of candidate assumptions, which were necessary for making parsimonious models. A basic assumption is that all macrophages can be infected when challenged with  S.  Typhimurium. To test this, murine-cultured primary-bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were infected with  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 constitutively expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP), referred to subsequently as G, at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 10. The bacteria were grown to late log phase to ensure the expression of SPI-1 genes, so that both the invasive and the phagocytic mechanisms of infection could occur. The lipopolysaccharide (LPS) O-antigen of extracellular bacteria was immunolocalized so as to discriminate between intracellular and extracellular  S.  Typhimurium. At 10 min post challenge (p.i.) with bacteria, 339 of 1500 BMDM were infected. As  S.  Typhimurium is an intracellular parasite of macrophages, we expected that most, and possibly all of the macrophages would be infected, which was not the case. To determine whether some cells are entirely resistant to infection, we performed experiments using increasing MOIs, and found that only at extreme MOIs is it possible to observe nearly all of the cells becoming infected. For example, 1483 of 1500 cells become infected by 10 min p.i. using an MOI of 800.
L17:We explored the basic cellular dynamics, using a combination of results in the existing literature and the experiments in our system. We assumed that no macrophage proliferation occurs during the time course of a 3 h experiment, which is reasonable given that one round of BMDM cell division takes at least 24 h and is slowed in the presence of bacteria [ 10 ]. This assumption was supported by our cell viability counts during a 3 h period, which showed that there was no macrophage proliferation. Cell death is a well-known consequence of macrophage infection by  S.  Typhimurium [ 3 ] and presumably facilitates bacterial dispersion. In our experiments, minimal levels of cell death were detected up to 30 min after infection.
L19:Figure 1. Sequential challenge of macrophages with G and R bacteria. Each bar represents 1500 BMDM, pooled from three separate replicates of 500 BMDM, and the colours show the number of BMDM infected by G (green), R (red), both G and R (brown) or uninfected (white). Each challenge was with an MOI of 50. ( a )(i) Cells were challenged with G for 30 min then counted, or (ii) challenged with G for 30 min, washed to remove extracellular bacteria and left for a further 30 min before being counted: in either case, about 80% of cells contained G. (iii) as (ii) but cells were challenged again with G for 30 min after the washes: more cells were infected by G than in (i) and (ii). (iv) as (ii) but challenged with R for 30 min after the washes. The proportion of cells infected by G alone in (iv) was clearly less than in (i) or (ii), most of the difference being accounted for by cells infected by both G and R. ( b ) An equivalent set of experiments, but with G and R swapped. The infection rate of R is lower, but the same qualitative result holds. ( a , b ) (v) Gives the expected counts under the null hypothesis of independence of G and R infection (see main text). ( a , b ) Cells infected with both G and R, and uninfected cells were observed more frequently than expected ( p  < 10 −4 ).
L20:To determine whether reinfection occurs and thus influences the number of bacteria within the cell, we performed a set of experiments whereby BMDM were infected with G or  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 expressing ds-Red under the control of the P ara BAD arabinose-inducible promoter (referred to subsequently as R). In these sequential challenge experiments, 500 BMDMs were challenged with G for 30 min, then washed and challenged again with R for a further 30 min. Three different controls were performed: G was used for both challenges, no second challenge was performed or the experiment was terminated at 30 min (before the second challenge). Each challenge used an MOI of 50. Experiments were also performed where the order of infection with G and R was reversed, for completeness. After immunostaining for LPS O-antigen, infected cells were visualized and BMDM were categorized as containing only G, only R, both G and R, or as containing neither (i.e. uninfected). Each experiment was performed in triplicate, and pooled data are presented ( figure 1 a,b (i–iv)). R consistently infected fewer cells than G. Although we had seen no difference in growth curves for G and R, it could be that the toxicity of ds-Red is reducing fitness of R in the context of infection studies.
L21: Figure 1. Sequential challenge of macrophages with G and R bacteria. Each bar represents 1500 BMDM, pooled from three separate replicates of 500 BMDM, and the colours show the number of BMDM infected by G (green), R (red), both G and R (brown) or uninfected (white). Each challenge was with an MOI of 50. ( a )(i) Cells were challenged with G for 30 min then counted, or (ii) challenged with G for 30 min, washed to remove extracellular bacteria and left for a further 30 min before being counted: in either case, about 80% of cells contained G. (iii) as (ii) but cells were challenged again with G for 30 min after the washes: more cells were infected by G than in (i) and (ii). (iv) as (ii) but challenged with R for 30 min after the washes. The proportion of cells infected by G alone in (iv) was clearly less than in (i) or (ii), most of the difference being accounted for by cells infected by both G and R. ( b ) An equivalent set of experiments, but with G and R swapped. The infection rate of R is lower, but the same qualitative result holds. ( a , b ) (v) Gives the expected counts under the null hypothesis of independence of G and R infection (see main text). ( a , b ) Cells infected with both G and R, and uninfected cells were observed more frequently than expected ( p  < 10 −4 ).
L22:If reinfection were not possible, then dual infection of individual cells could happen only through a single event in which the BMDM was infected by both G and R simultaneously, which should be rare here because the initial population of bacteria are washed off before the second challenge. However, 418 of 1500 BMDM contained both G and R in the first series of experiments, and 431 of 1500 when the order of infection with G and R was swapped. The number of BMDM containing only G or R was correspondingly reduced in sequential challenge compared with any of the single challenge controls: this is consistent with BMDM undergoing sequential infections (see  figure 1  for details).
L23:Figure 2. Salmonella  Typhimurium are contained in  Salmonella -containing vacuoles (SCVs) at different stages of maturation, indicating that reinfection events have occurred. Overnight cultures of  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 expressing GFP (G) were added to BMDM at an MOI of 100. Samples were fixed at 10 min post-infection and immunolocalization for extracellular bacteria was performed using anti-O5 antisera. The panels show the localization of extracellular G bacteria, the early phagosomal protein EEA1, the late phagosomal protein LAMP-1, the overlaid image of G, EEA1 and LAMP-1 and the merged picture of all the images in phase contrast. The arrows indicate SCVs of differing maturity containing  S.  Typhimurium. A total of 100 BMDM were assessed per experiment and this was repeated on three separate occasions.
L24:We used microscopy to investigate the intracellular localization of the bacteria. Within the macrophage,  S.  Typhimurium resides in the SCV [ 12 ]. During the first steps of the maturation process, the early SCV expresses endosomal markers, such as endosomal antigen 1 (EEA1), but these early protein markers are rapidly replaced by late endosomal markers such as lysosomal glycoprotein 1 (LAMP-1) [ 12 , 13 ]. If multiple bacteria were to infect a cell in the same event, then they would reside in the same SCV. However, if two separate infection events happened at different times, then one might expect that the bacteria should reside within different and separate SCVs, expressing endosomal markers denoting different maturity within the same cell. To test this assumption, BMDMs were infected with G (at an MOI of 100) for 10 min and then immunostained for EEA1 and LAMP-1. In infected cells containing more than one  S.  Typhimurium, the bacteria were often contained within SCVs at different stages of maturation ( figure 2 ), supporting the existence of a reinfection process.
L25: Figure 2. Salmonella  Typhimurium are contained in  Salmonella -containing vacuoles (SCVs) at different stages of maturation, indicating that reinfection events have occurred. Overnight cultures of  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 expressing GFP (G) were added to BMDM at an MOI of 100. Samples were fixed at 10 min post-infection and immunolocalization for extracellular bacteria was performed using anti-O5 antisera. The panels show the localization of extracellular G bacteria, the early phagosomal protein EEA1, the late phagosomal protein LAMP-1, the overlaid image of G, EEA1 and LAMP-1 and the merged picture of all the images in phase contrast. The arrows indicate SCVs of differing maturity containing  S.  Typhimurium. A total of 100 BMDM were assessed per experiment and this was repeated on three separate occasions.
L27:In order to gather direct evidence of reinfection events, we performed real-time confocal imaging of individual cells exposed to G and R bacteria. This technically challenging experiment required a change from BMDMs to the mouse-macrophage-like cell line RAW264.7, which is more susceptible to infection, thus increasing the chances of visualizing live infection events. G and R bacteria were added to 2 × 10 5  RAW267.4 macrophages. Cells were challenged for 15 min with R at an MOI of 50, washed three times to remove any residual bacteria and then, after identifying and keeping in view an infected cell, G bacteria were added at an MOI of 100. The infected cells were observed in multiple planes (Z-stacks) over time to confirm the presence or absence of intracellular bacteria. Using time-lapse confocal microscopy, we unequivocally visualized the infection of a cell already infected with an R bacterium by a G bacterium. Still images of merged Z-stacks are shown ( figure 3 ). Movies showing the Z-stacks separately are available as electronic supplementary material.
L29:Having established experimentally that macrophages can be reinfected, a key question concerns whether infection alters macrophages in their susceptibility to further infection. The independence of separate infection events was tested using the sequential challenge data described earlier. Our null hypothesis was that infection by G and R would be independent; so a cell infected by G, say, would be as likely to be infected by R as a cell that was not infected by G. To find the expected distribution if the R and G infections were happening independently, we first note the percentage infected with G (ignoring the presence or the absence of R): in  figure 1 a (iv), 418 + 445 gives 57.5% for G. Similarly, for R, 418 + 246 gives 44.2%. Under a null hypothesis of independence of strains, we would expect 57.5% × 44.2% × 1500 = 382 BMDM infected with  both  strains. This expected value is calculated for each part of the distribution and given in  figure 1 a (v), b (v). In the observed data, there were 418 cells infected with both G and R. The probability of a difference at least this extreme happening by chance under independence of strains can be calculated using Fisher's exact test (one-tailed):  p  < 10 −4  here ( p  < 10 −5  for G and R swapped). This suggests that the strains are not behaving independently: there are disproportionately many dual infections, or equivalently, uninfected cells. There are four obvious mechanisms that would violate the null hypothesis: (i) new cells growing; (ii) cells being killed by infection; (iii) heterogeneity of cell susceptibility and (iv) infection changing the probability of further infection, the last two processes being central to this study.
L31:Figure 4. Bacterial count distributions at 10 min post challenge, different MOIs, with model fits. BMDM cells were infected for 10 min with G at a range of MOIs (10–800). The horizontal axis refers to the number of intracellular bacteria, with 9+ merged into one class, the vertical axis refers to the proportion of macrophages (from 1500 cells for each MOI), and the bars give the 95% CIs from multinomial models. The grey curves give the best-fitting model: two cell populations with differing susceptibilities, intracellular growth of bacteria, reduced rate of infection after first infection and no death of infected cells. Ten parameters in total were used (for all MOI together) and the fitted values are given in  table 2 .
L32:Our experimental analysis challenged several of our original assumptions, leading us to construct a more detailed set of experiments and models to explore the dynamic interaction of  S.  Typhimurium with macrophages. We exposed BMDM to salmonellae at six different MOIs and counted the number of intracellular bacteria in each of 500 cells per experiment. A time point of 10 min p.i. challenge was chosen so that: (i) host cell replication would be negligible; (ii) extracellular bacterial growth would be negligible and (iii) bacterial killing of macrophages would not dominate the dynamics. The experiments were performed in triplicate, and the data were pooled, making a total of 9000 cells being counted ( figure 4 ). At the lowest MOI, there were at most four bacteria per cell, with most of the cells remaining uninfected. At the highest MOI, many of the cells contained at least one bacterium by 10 min, and some cells contained many bacteria (20+).
L33: Figure 4. Bacterial count distributions at 10 min post challenge, different MOIs, with model fits. BMDM cells were infected for 10 min with G at a range of MOIs (10–800). The horizontal axis refers to the number of intracellular bacteria, with 9+ merged into one class, the vertical axis refers to the proportion of macrophages (from 1500 cells for each MOI), and the bars give the 95% CIs from multinomial models. The grey curves give the best-fitting model: two cell populations with differing susceptibilities, intracellular growth of bacteria, reduced rate of infection after first infection and no death of infected cells. Ten parameters in total were used (for all MOI together) and the fitted values are given in  table 2 .
L52:A simple explanation for the model suggesting two populations of cells might be that the BMDMs contain a mixture of type 1 and type 2 macrophages that are differentially susceptible to infection with  S.  Typhimurium [ 15 ]. Primary macrophages generated in MCSF-containing media are predominantly type 1 [ 16 ]. Using flow cytometry analysis (for the type 2 macrophage marker CD206) [ 17 ], we confirmed that our primary BMDMs contained 80–90% type 1 and 10–20% type 2 macrophages. More type 2 BMDMs, as expected [ 16 ], are infected with  S.  Typhimurium (89.6% of cells) after challenge than the type 1s (39.6% cells), although whether this is due to increased bacterial proliferation or increased susceptibility to infection leading to increased numbers of reinfection events is unclear. The proportions of type 1 and 2 macrophages do not appear to correspond with the model fit of two populations of approximately equal size. Interestingly though, the proportions could be compatible with the three population model fit if the type 1 population itself was split into two subpopulations.
L72:The mathematical analysis identified that the observed data are best explained by a two-macrophage population model rather than having a homogenous population of cells. This suggests heterogeneity in cellular susceptibility to infection. Most biological studies analyse only the cells that have been infected by  S.  Typhimurium or consider studies where a population of cells have been pooled together and are all assumed to have been infected. Our work shows clearly that some cells are far more susceptible to infection than others. Heterogeneity or plasticity in macrophage phenotypes is a well-established concept with, at least, two types of macrophage characterized: classically activated (type 1) and alternatively activated (type 2) [ 15 ]. Type 1 macrophages are important for killing intracellular pathogens, whereas type 2 macrophages generate responses to parasites [ 15 ]. Our primary BMDMs contained over 80 per cent (type 1) and less than 20 per cent (type 2 macrophages). This provides a possible explanation for the heterogeneity suggested by the models, but quantitatively it is not consistent with the fit for proportions for the two-population model: the fit gave roughly equal-sized populations. Alternatively (and consistent with our model results), this disparity could be resolved if there were more than two populations, perhaps distinct populations within the type 1 macrophages, supporting the possibility of three or more subpopulations of cells, or indeed a spectrum of susceptibilities to infection with  S.  Typhimurium.
L76:Primary BMDMs were prepared as described [ 20 ]. RAW264.7 macrophages (from ECACC) were grown and maintained as described [ 21 ]. A preliminary analysis showed that RAW264.7 cells were more susceptible to infection than BMDMs, and RAW264.7 cells were therefore used for the live imaging analysis. Cells were plated onto six-well plates at a plating density of 4 × 10 5  per well in a total of 2 ml of media (Sigma-Aldrich Ltd.).
[56ms]
