L1:The Effects of  Paracoccidioides brasiliensis  Infection on GM-CSF- and M-CSF-Induced Mouse Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophage from Resistant and Susceptible Mice Strains
L6:Considering the importance of macrophages as the first line of defense against fungal infection and the different roles played by the two M1- and M2-like polarized macrophages, we decided to evaluate the effects of  Paracoccidioides brasiliensis  infection on GM-CSF- and M-CSF-induced bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMM) from the A/J and B10.A mouse strains, an established model of resistance/susceptibility to PCM, respectively. Upon differentiation, the generated GM- or M-BMMs were characterized by morphological analyses, gene expression profiles, and cytokines production. Our main results demonstrate that GM-BMMs derived from A/J and B.10 produced high levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines that may contribute to generate an unbalanced early immune response. In accordance with the literature, the B10.A susceptible mice lineage has an innate tendency to polarize into M1-like phenotype, whereas the opposite phenotype occurs in A/J resistance mice. In this context, our data support that susceptibility and resistance are strongly correlated with M1 and M2 polarization, respectively.
L13:To better understand the role of M1/M2-like macrophage in the PCM murine model, in this work, we evaluated phagocytic and secretory abilities, as well as expression analyses of some genes related to mice antifungal responses in GM-CSF (M1-like) and M-CSF (M2-like) induced bone marrow macrophages obtained from of A/J and B10.A mouse strains infected  in vitro  with a virulent strain of  P. brasiliensis .
L18:P. brasiliensis  resistant (A/J) and susceptible (B10.A) strains of 6 to 12 weeks old male mice [ 14 ,  16 ,  20 ,  33 ] were obtained from the Immunology Department of the University of São Paulo Biomedical Sciences Institute, Brazil. The animals were housed with food and water  ad libitum  at the Animal Care Center of the Biological Institute of the University of Brasilia, Brazil. The mice were euthanized in a carbon dioxide chamber, and their bone marrows were collected. All procedures involving animal were performed following the guidelines for the use of animals according to Brazilian laws and were approved by the Committee of Ethical Use of Animals (Proc. UnBDoc 52657/2011).
L20: Ex Vivo  Infection of GM-BMM (GM-CSF-Induced Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophage) and M-BMM (M-CSF-Induced) Cells from  P. brasiliensis  Resistant and Susceptible Mouse Strains
L21:The two different BMMs populations were obtained using recombinant GM-CSF (20 ng/mL PeproTech) or M-CSF (30% (v/v) of L929 cell-conditioned medium) according to Tadokoro and de Almeida Abrahamsohn [ 34 ]. In this work, the nomenclature adopted is GM-BMM or M-BMM, related to GM-CSF- or M-CSF-induced macrophage differentiation condition, respectively. Briefly, the isolated BMMs from each mouse strain were cultivated in RMPI 1640 medium with 10% fetal bovine serum containing GM-CSF and M-CSF for 7 days when the adherent cells were recovered [ 34 ]. These cells were infected or not with  P. brasiliensis  at a cell-to-yeast ratio of 5 : 1 (multiplicity of infection, MOI: 5 : 1) for 6 h (transcription and ELISA assays) or 24 h (ELISA assays) in a humidified atmosphere of 5% CO 2  at 37°C. This MOI has been previously shown to be nondeleterious to macrophage cultures [ 35 ,  36 ].
L22:2.4. Ratio of Internalized/Adhered  P. brasiliensis  Yeast Cells by the Two Different BMMs of A/J and B10.A Mouse Strains
L27:The total RNA of the cultured macrophages was obtained employing the RNAeasy Plus Mini Kit (QIAGEN cat. number 74134), in accordance with the manufacturer's protocol. After DNase I treatment (included in the RNeasy Mini Kit Plus), first-strand cDNAs were synthesized from 500 ng of total RNA for each sample following the instructions of SuperScript III (Invitrogen). To confirm the GM- and M-CSF phenotype, the expression of markers genes was tested using specific primers for iNOS (forward-CGAAACGCTTCACTTCCAA, reverse-TGAGCCTATATTGCTGTGGCT) and Arginase-1 (forward-GTTCCCAGATGTACCAGGATTC, reverse-CGATGTCTTTGGCAGATATGC). The internal control used was 40S ribosomal protein S9 (RPS9) gene (forward-CGCCAGAAGCTGGGTTTGT, reverse-CGAGACGCGACTTCTCGAA) [ 36 ]. The qRT-PCR was performed using SyBr Green Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) with the standard cycling condition for this dye.
L32:3.1. Characterization of GM-BMM and M-BMM of A/J and B10.A Mice Strains
L33:Our group is interested in studying the host innate immune responses to pathogenic fungi, with emphasis on the role of macrophages from A/J e B10.A mouse strains, which is a well-established model of resistance/susceptibility to PCM [ 14 ,  16 ]. Considering the importance of these phagocytic cells as the first line of defense against fungal infection and the different roles played by the two subtypes of polarized macrophages, we decided to evaluate the response of GM- and M-CSF-induced BMMs of A/J and B10.A mouse strains infected with  P. brasiliensis . Upon differentiation, the generated GM- or M-BMMs were characterized by morphological analyses and by their gene expression profiles, described as important markers to each polarized macrophage subtype.
L34:A similar morphology was observed in the GM-BMM from A/J and B10.A mice. Both cell subtypes revealed an abundant and slightly acid granular cytoplasm, filled with vesicles/vacuoles ( Figure 1(a) ). This feature was also described by McWhorter et al. [ 38 ], who observed that M1-polarizing stimuli (LPS+IFN γ ) caused cells to flatten into a round, pancake-like shape. Another aspect in common was related to their tendency to form multinucleated giant cells, similar to those found in several pathological conditions, including the foreign body response and infection sites of tuberculosis and cryptococcosis, which were described  in vitro  with human monocytes [ 39 ,  40 ] (data not shown). Conversely, M-BMM from the two mouse strains showed a reduced, smooth, and basophilic cytoplasm ( Figure 1(a) ). Again, this elongated cell morphology was similar to that observed with monocytes exposed to M2-polarizing stimuli (IL-4+IL-13), as also described by McWhorter et al. [ 38 ]. These macrophages also tend to form cell aggregates around  P. brasiliensis  yeasts cells (data not shown). Although the GM-BMM and M-BMM revealed morphological resemblances in the two mouse strains, the expression profiles of Arginase-1 (Arg-1) and induced Nitric Oxide synthase (iNOS) marker genes were different.
L35:The  in vitro  expression profile of these marker genes is well known from studies with typical polarized M1 and M2 macrophages stimulated with IFN- γ  and IL-4, respectively, which resulted in iNOS high  and Arg-1 low  in M1 and iNOS low  and Arg-1 high  in M2 [ 23 ,  41 ]. In the present work, the culture conditions used to obtain the different types of BMMs employed only GM-CSF or M-CSF, without any other postdifferentiation mediator. The analysis of the expression profiles revealed that only the BMMs of B10.A strain developed the expected pattern (iNOS high  and Arg-1 low  in response to GM-CSF and iNOS low  and Arg-1 high  to M-CSF stimulus), as shown in  Figure 1(b) . A different expression pattern was observed with GM-BMM of A/J strain, revealing a discrete induction of iNOS, a slight upregulation of Arg-1, and a lack of induction of both genes in M-BMM ( Figure 1(b) ). The paucity of data related to marker genes expression profiles of  in vitro  polarized BMMs from A/J and B10.A mouse strains causes some difficulty in exploring our data. Altogether, the culture conditions and the different mouse strains could explain the absence of a clear expression profile of the marker genes when compared to  in vitro  IFN- γ  and IL-4 poststimulated M1 and M2 macrophages, respectively. Of note, several other genes besides iNOS and Arg-1 are differently expressed in GM-BMM and M-BMM cells. In fact, Lacey et al. [ 42 ] using a whole murine genome microarray showed 4206 genes differentially regulated between the murine C57BL/6 GM-BMM and M-BMM, with no poststimulation, including Clec7a, Il1r1, Ptx3, Cxcl3 (upregulated), and IL-10 (downregulated). As shown in  Figure 1(c) , these genes showed the same transcriptional pattern regardless of the mice strain, when we compared GM-BMM versus M-BMM. In sum, these results suggest a polarized differentiation in our cells.
L36:To comparatively evaluate the initial interaction between the two types of BMMs, from both susceptible/resistant mouse strains and  P. brasiliensis  yeast cells, we determined the number of adhered/internalized fungal cells by the different BMMs. Since the formation of multinucleated giant cells observed in GM-BMMs and cells aggregates in M-BMM made counting individual macrophages difficult, the percentage of yeast cells internalized/adhered only took into consideration individual infected/noninfected macrophages. After 6 h of infection, regardless of the differentiated macrophage type, BMMs derived from B10.A strain showed higher percentage of internalization/adhesion than A/J strain ( Figure 2 ). This agrees with the hypothesis that the susceptibility to  P. brasiliensis  is associated with an exacerbated initial innate immune response, while resistance is associated with an initially moderate response [ 11 ,  20 ]. Furthermore, as shown in  Figure 2 , a significantly higher percentage of internalized/adhered yeast cells was observed in M-BMMs when compared to GM-BMMs in both mouse strains (to both AJ and B10.A, M-BMM > GM-BMM). After 24 h of coculture, the same pattern was observed, with significantly higher percentage of internalization/adhesion in B10.A than A/J BMMs. In addition, despite being higher than A/J BMMs, both BMMs from B10.A presented relatively similar results (GM-BMM similar to M-BMM), while in A/J there was a significantly higher percentage of internalization/adhesion in M-BMMs than GM-BMMs (M-BMM > GM-BMM).
L37:4. Gene Expression Profiling of GM- and M-BMMs from A/J and B10.A Mice Infected with  Paracoccidioides brasiliensis  and Cytokines Production
L38:The pattern of gene expression in GM- and M-BMMs from A/J and B10.A mice infected with  P. brasiliensis  yeast cells was assessed using the Antifungal Response RT 2  Profiler PCR Array (Quiagen). As described in the methodology, this array profiles the transcriptional levels of 84 critical genes, classified in important functional categories of the innate immune response to fungal pathogens.   Figure 3(a)  shows the gene expression heat map of all 84 genes in GM- and M-BMMs from both mice strains infected with  P. brasiliensis . Specifically, in GM- and M-BMMs from A/J mice, fungal infection results in a significant transcriptional modulation (up- or downregulation) of 55 genes. Among them, 10 genes were similarly induced in both BMMs, 30 exclusively in GM-BMM, and 15 in M-BMM. Similarly, in GM- and M-BMMs from B10.A mice, 7 genes were commonly modulated, 24 were exclusively in GM-BMM, and 24 were in M-BMM ( Figure 3(b) ). Based on the findings of previous fungal-phagocyte interaction studies, we selected modulated genes and clustered them into different functional categories as shown in  Table 1 .
L39:Activation of macrophages is one of the first events in the innate immune response to fungal infections. This activation occurs upon recognition of conserved components of fungal cells by germline-encoded pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) of the phagocytic innate immune cells. Accordingly, several PRRs and PRRs signal transduction-encoding genes were modulated in BMMs infected with  P. brasiliensis . Toll-like receptors (TLR) and C-lectin type receptors (CLR) are considered as being the main PRRs families involved in fungal recognition [ 21 ].
L40:Our PCRarray data shows that the infection of GM- and M-BMMs from A/J mice with  P. brasiliensis  leads to no modulation of TLR2, TLR4, and TLR9 coding genes. Conversely, GM-BMM from B10.A had significant lower transcript levels of these TLRs, whereas TLR2 and MYD88 (protein adaptors that are critically important to TLR signaling pathway) were induced in M-BMM. Interestingly, expression of the gene coding TLR2 increased in dendritic cells after infection of susceptible mice with  P. brasiliensis , but not in the resistant ones [ 43 ]. Furthermore, [ 22 ] demonstrated  in vitro  and  in vivo  that the lack of TLR2 usage and signaling resulted in a less-severe fungal infection, despite the fact that TLR2 deficient and normal mice showed equivalent survival times. Thus, TLR2 engagement could be employed as an evasion mechanism of  P. brasiliensis  and other PRRs may play an important role in the host immune response against  P. brasiliensis  infection.
L41:Another important PRR to  P. brasiliensis  recognition and cellular activation is Dectin-1 [ 44 ]. According to these authors, the absence of Dectin-1 receptor drives macrophages to M2 phenotype with an anti-inflammatory activity that results in a lower nitric oxide production and an increased fungal growth [ 44 ]. Our results showed that Dectin-1 and Dectin-2 genes were upregulated in both BMMs of A/J ( Table 1 ). The Dectin-1 gene was also upregulated in M-BMM of B10.A but was nonmodulated in GM-BMM, while Dectin-2 gene was nonmodulated in BMMs of B10.A. The importance of Dectin-1 in antifungal defense is well established in several fungi as  Candida  sp.,  Aspergillus  sp., capsule deficient  C. neoformans,  and  Histoplasma capsulatum  [ 45 ,  46 ]. Recently, it has been shown that Dectin-1 and Dectin-2 receptors were involved in the interaction with  Fonsecaea pedrosoi  spores, while spore recognition by Dectin-2 was responsible for the development of antigen-specific Th17 response [ 47 ].
L42:The Mannose receptor (MR) gene was upregulated in GM-BMM of A/J; however, it was downregulated in both macrophages from B10.A. Feriotti et al. [ 31 ] showed that  P. brasiliensis  infection of a murine strain where MR was blocked by monoclonal antibodies resulted in a decrease of macrophage killing abilities as well as nitric oxide production. Moreover, the authors using flow cytometry assay have shown that  P. brasiliensis  induced a lower expression of this receptor on A/J macrophages, different to what we observed here, by transcript level analysis. The MR engagement was associated with classical macrophage activation and susceptibility of B10.A strain [ 31 ]. However, this apparent conflicting result may be probably due to a very poor correlation observed for comparisons between mRNA and protein levels [ 48 ,  49 ].
L43:The downstream CLR signaling is important for the generation of an efficient cellular activation and fungal elimination. Dectin-1 transduces downstream signaling via Src and Syk family kinases and/or by a second pathway via Raf. These pathways lead to cytokine genes transcription and protein secretion [ 45 ,  46 ]. The Syk and Raf-1 genes were nonmodulated in GM- and M-BMM from A/J ( Table 1 ), while they were upregulated in M-BMM and downregulated in GM-BMM from B10.A. Following Dectin-1 activation, the intracellular Raf-1 and Syk-dependent signaling pathway was demonstrated crucial for fine-tuning cytokine gene expression [ 50 ].
L44:According to Feriotti et al. [ 31 ], A/J mice experimentally infected with  P. brasiliensis  showed M2-like differentiation macrophages, while B10.A mice showed M1-like differentiation macrophages. Analyzing the gene expression profile of GM-BMM from B10.A and M-BMM from A/J, the B10.A macrophages showed a decreased gene expression of CLR signaling molecules that could impair the efficient cell activation and, despite their M1-like phenotype, the control of antifungal defense seems not to be correctly activated.
L45:Another crucial aspect of the innate immunity against fungal pathogen is the activation of the inflammasome, a cytoplasmic protein complex composed of PRRs such as NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family, pyrin domain-containing 3), an adaptor protein ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD), and procaspase-1. Upon formation of the complex, procaspase-1 is cleaved into an active cysteine protease, which further leads to the maturation of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1 β  and IL-18. Recently, we have shown that  P. brasiliensis  activates NLRP3 inflammasome [ 51 ]. Feriotti et al. [ 31 ] found that macrophages from the susceptible B10.A mice infected with  P. brasiliensis  exhibited the typical markers of a proinflammatory “M1-like” (GM-BMM) differentiation. In contrast, A/J macrophages exhibited an alternatively activated “M2-like” (M-BMM) differentiation. In this context, here is shown that B10.A macrophages, regardless of M- or GM-CSF-induced differentiation, showed high IL-1 β  transcript accumulation, suggesting an “M1-like” differentiation pattern, whereas in M-BMM of A/J, neither NLRP3 nor IL-1 β  genes were modulated by  P. brasiliensis  infection. Thus, infected M-BMM from A/J preserves the profile associated with resistance (i.e., alternatively activated macrophages). Of note, GM-BMM from A/J showed similar pattern of NLRP3 and IL-1 β  expression when compared to M- and GM-BMM from susceptible B10.A mice (i.e., classically activated macrophages).
L46:Regarding the transcript levels of the cytokines IL-2, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, and TNF- α , they were increased in GM-BMMs of both mice lineage when compared to M-BMMs. In fact, the protein levels of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF- α  and the anti-inflammatory IL-10 were significantly increased, as assayed by ELISA at 6 and 24 h of infection (Figures  4  and  5 ), corroborating the transcript levels shown by the PCRarray. Interestingly, monocytes infected with the  P. brasiliensis  highly virulent isolate Pb18 produced higher levels of IL-6 and IL-10 than Pb265 isolate (low virulence) [ 52 ]. Thus, regardless of the mice strain, the isolate 18 of  P. brasiliensis  is induced in GM-BMMs to release into the environment context large amounts of both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines that may contribute to disturbances in immunity, which possibly leads to fungal survival. For instance, IL-6 production was associated to a significant increase in  P. brasiliensis  (Pb18 isolate) growth in monocytes [ 53 ]. Concerning IL-10, a large body of data exists, revealing the role of this regulatory cytokine with a compromised response to  P. brasiliensis  infection. In this sense, the simultaneous incubation of IL-10 with either IFN- γ  or TNF- α  inhibits murine macrophage fungicidal activity of these cells when cocultured with  P. brasiliensis . The suppression of this activity by IL-10 was associated with the inhibition of nitric oxide production [ 54 ]. Furthermore, IL-10-knockout mice develop early T-cell responses, controlling the fungal growth in the lungs, resulting in an increased survival when compared to IL-10-sufficient mice [ 55 ].
L47:Altogether, our results as shown in  Figure 6  demonstrate that GM-BMMs derived from A/J and B.10 produced higher levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines that may contribute to generate an unbalanced early immune response. It has been shown that the susceptible mouse lineage B10.A has an innate tendency to polarize into M1-like phenotype, whereas the opposite phenotype occurs in resistant A/J mice [ 31 ]. In this context, our data support that susceptibility and resistance are strongly associated with M1 and M2 polarization, respectively.
L58:Figure 1 Characterization of GM-BMM and M-BMM of A/J and B10.A mice. Murine bone marrow cells were differentiated into macrophages (BMM) in the presence of GM-CSF (GM-BMM) or M-CSF (M-BMM) as described in  Section 2 . (a) Photomicrography of GM-BMM and M-BMM from A/J and B10.A mouse strains stained with Panotic kit (×200). (b) Quantitative PCR analysis (qRT-PCR) of induced nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) or Arginase-1 (ARG-1) mRNA expression from GM-BMM or M-BMM. Bars with SD represent the mean of fold change of the gene expression and are shown as  n -fold difference of GM-BMM to the M-BMM cells. Fold change values were determined after each gene was normalized to the constitutively expressed rps9 gene. Data is representative of three separate experiments. (c) qRT-PCR analysis of Clec7a, Ilr1, Ptx3, Cxcl3, or Il10 mRNA expression from GM-BMM or M-BMM. Bars represent the mean of fold gene expression and are shown as  n -fold difference of GM-BMM to the M-BMM cells. Fold change values were determined after each gene was normalized to the constitutively expressed Gusb (A/J) and B2m (B10.A) genes using the comparative threshold method.
L59:Figure 2 Ratio of internalized/adhered  P. brasiliensis  yeast cell by GM-BMMs and M-BMMs of A/J and B10.A mouse strains. Phagocytosis assays were performed employing a MOI (multiplicity of infection) of 5 : 1 macrophage to  P. brasiliensis  (Pb18) yeast cells, for incubation times of 6 h and 24 h. After the coculture, the cells were stained with Panotic kit. An average of 300 macrophages was counted and the number of ingested and/or adherent yeasts was determined. ( ∗∗∗∗ 
L64:Figure 3 Expression profiling based on Mouse Antifungal Response RTC Profiler PCR Array. (a) A heat map was generated with 84 genes associated with antifungal immune response and five housekeeping genes, using RT 2  Profiler Data Analysis Software version 3.5 with the PAMM 00147Z array panel (SABiosciences). Fold change values were determined after each gene was normalized to the constitutively expressed Gusb (A/J) and B2m (B10.A) genes using the comparative threshold method. AIGs 1, 2, and 3 and AIMs 1, 2, and 3 stand for A/J GM-BMM and M-BMM, respectively, infected with  P. brasiliensis  in relation to its respective control cells. BIGs 1, 2, and 3 and BIMs 1, 2, and 3 stand for B10.A GM-BMM and M-BMM, respectively, infected with  P. brasiliensis  in relation to its respective control cells. (b) Venn diagram summarizing the results of differentially expressed genes ( p  ≤ 0.05; fold change ≥2) between the noninfected and  P. brasiliensis  infected group of GM- or M-BMM of A/J and B10.A mice strains.
L65:Figure 4 Cytokines profile after 6 h of  Paracoccidioides brasiliensis  infection of GM- and M-BMMs from A/J and B10.A mouse strains. Cytokines levels produced by the two different BMMs of both mouse strains after infection with Pb18, by ELISA assay. Data are means ± SD of triplicate samples representative of three separate experiments ( ∗∗∗∗ 
L69:Figure 5 Cytokines profile after 24 h of  Paracoccidioides brasiliensis  infection of GM- and M-BMMs from A/J and B10.A mouse strains. Cytokines levels produced by the two different BMMs of both mouse strains after infection with Pb18, by ELISA assay. Data are means ± SD of triplicate samples representative of three separate experiments ( ∗∗∗∗ 
L73:Figure 6 Schematic representation of the major results of gene expression and cytokine production by GM- and M-BMM from A/J and B10.A mouse strains in response to  in vitro  Pb18 infection. The arrows indicate up- and downregulated genes. The yellow, red, green, and blue circles are representative of TNF- α , IL-10, MCP-1, and IL-6, respectively. The genes indicated in bold demonstrated a higher expression compared between GM- and M-BMM from the same mouse strain. The underlined genes indicated the same expression pattern between GM- and M-BMM from different mice strain.
L112:34 Tadokoro C. E. de Almeida Abrahamsohn I. Bone marrow-derived macrophages grown in GM-CSF or M-CSF differ in their ability to produce IL-12 and to induce IFN-gamma production after stimulation with Trypanosoma cruzi antigens Immunology Letters 2001 77 1 31 38 10.1016/s0165-2478(01)00197-3 2-s2.0-0035340358 11348667
L120:42 Lacey D. C. Achuthan A. Fleetwood A. J. Defining GM-CSF- and macrophage-CSF-dependent macrophage responses by in vitro models The Journal of Immunology 2012 188 11 5752 5765 10.4049/jimmunol.1103426 2-s2.0-84862104611 22547697
[64ms]
