L6:Foamy cells have been described in various infectious diseases, for example in actinomycetoma induced by  Nocardia brasiliensis . These cells are generally considered to be macrophages, although they present dendritic cell (DC)-specific surface markers. In this study, we determined and confirmed the lineage of possible precursors of foamy cells  in vitro  and  in vivo  using an experimental actinomycetoma model in BALB/c mice. Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM) or DC (BMDC) were infected  in vitro  with  N. brasiliensis  or labeled with carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester (CFSE). Both, macrophages and DC, differentiated into foamy cells after  in vitro  infection. CFSE-labeled BMDM or BMDC were tested for phagocytosis and CD11c/CD11b receptors markers expression before being transferred into the actinomycetoma lesion site of infected mice.  In vivo  studies showed that BMDM and BMDC were traced at the site where foamy cells are present in the experimental actinomycetoma. Interestingly, many of the transferred BMDM and BMDC were stained with the lipid-droplet fluorophore Nile Red. In conclusion, macrophages and DC cells can be differentiated into foamy cells  in vitro  and  in vivo  during  N. brasiliensis  infection.
L19:Generation of Bone Marrow-derived Macrophages (BMDM) and Dendritic Cells (BMDC)
L20:Mice were anesthetized and sacrificed by cervical dislocation. Bone marrow cells of femurs and tibiae of donor BALB/c mice were collected, treated with ammonium chloride  [23]  and washed in complete RPMI (RPMI-1640/25 mM HEPES/24 mM bicarbonate supplemented with 50–100 U penicillin/mL, 50–100 µg streptomycin/mL, (all Sigma-Aldrich, St.Louis, MO, USA; RPMI) and 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Mediatech, Manassas, VA, USA) or complete advanced DMEM (advanced DMEM medium supplemented with 25 mM HEPES, 50–100 U penicillin/mL, 50–100 µg streptomycin/mL, (all Sigma-Aldrich, St.Louis, MO, USA) and 5% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Mediatech, Manassas, VA, USA). Cells were plated at 1×10 5  cells/cm 2  in complete RPMI or complete advanced DMEM with their respective differentiation factors: 1) 30% L929-conditioned medium for BMDM  [24] , and 2) 20 ng/mL recombinant murine granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and 20 ng/mL interleukin 4 (IL-4) (Peprotech, Rocky Hill, NJ, USA) for BMDC. Media were refreshed every 2–3 days and cells were allowed to differentiate during 6 days. As negative control, we used non adherent cells from mouse spleen. In order to obtain these cells, spleen was removed under sterile conditions to prepare a cell suspension. Mononuclear cells were isolated using a ficoll diatrizoate density gradient and plated at 1×10 5  cells/cm 2 , incubated in complete advanced DMEM overnight. Non-adherent cells were obtained and used in adoptive transference assays.
L26:1×10 6  BMDM or BMDC cells suspended in complete RPMI were seeded and allowed to adhere for 2 h in normal culture conditions before being incubated with a 30-fold excess of 2 µm Latex beads (Polysciences, Warrington, PA, USA) for 3 h at 37°C. After extensive washing with PBS, cells were fixed in 10% formalin and 100 cells were counted (in duplicate) and the percentage of phagocytosis was determined.
L27:In vitro  Infection of BMDM and BMDC
L28:BMDM and BMDC were seeded in 8-well Permanox slide chambers (Lab-Tex Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rochester, NY) at 5×10 4  cells per well in 700 µL of advanced DMEM medium/5% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Mediatech, Manassas, VA, USA) without antibiotics, and incubated at 37°C in 5% CO 2  for 2 h. BMDM and BMDC were infected for 2 h with log-fase  N. brasiliensis  strain (ATCC no. 700358), cultured and recovered as described in  [16] , at a multiplicity of infection of 5∶1, After the removal of extracellular bacteria, cells were incubated for an additional 48 h in advanced DMEM/5% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum without antibiotics before lipid body staining.
L30:Monolayers were washed 3 times with a sterile 0.85% saline solution and fixed in 10% formalin for 10 min. After the addition of 60% isopropanol, the chamber was removed and BMDM and BMDC were stained with Oil Red O (Sigma-Aldrich) for 15 min. Slides were rinsed with 60% isopropanol and counterstained with hematoxylin.
L36:Murine BMDM are easily generated  in vitro  with L929-conditioned medium as can be verified by their homogeneous morphology ( fig. 1  a) and F4/80 expression in over 98% of the harvested cells ( fig. 1c ). On the other hand, murine bone marrow cells differentiated with GM-CSF and IL-4 generated a mixture of semi-adherent DC, adherent macrophages, and neutrophils in suspension  [25] . The latter were easily removed by elimination of the medium and washing of the adherent cells. However, considering the aim of the study, it was most important to deplete all macrophages from the DC cell cultures. We did not rely on the commonly applied technique of positive selection of CD11c-labeled or CD205-labeled cells because macrophages tend to be CD11c+  [26] ,  [27] , and CD205+ macrophages have been described  [21] ,  [28] . Therefore, we chose for depletion of F4/80+ cells. F4/80 is considered a macrophage marker, although a subpopulation of DC, for example epidermal Langerhans cells and kidney DC, might also be F4/80+  [29] ,  [30] ,  [31] . To ensure DC ( fig. 1b ), we preferred losing some DC above having a macrophage contamination.  Figure 1d  demonstrates that less than 5% of the macrophage-depleted BMDC were F4/80+.
L37:Figure 1 Morphology and immunophenotype of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM) and dendritic cells (BMDC). Five-day cultures of BMDM generated with 30% L929-conditioned medium (A) or BMDC generated with 20 ng/mL GM-CSF and IL-4 (B); images were taken at 200x+digital zoom. Over 98% of the BMDM were F4/80+ (C), but less than 4.5% of the macrophage-depleted BMDC were F4/80+ (D).
L38:Although CFSE labeling ( fig. 2a ) affected BMDM and BMDC morphology at the short term with cells rounding up during the first hours after labeling, the next day, viable cells had recovered typical morphology and adherence. The immunophenotype pattern was hardly altered between control and CFSE-labeled BMDM or BMDC ( fig. 2b ) and considered acceptable. Similarly, functionality was unaffected as verified by phagocytosis studies of harvested and reseeded CFSE-labeled and control BMDM, which had phagocytosis indices of 96.0% (±2.96) and 97.6% (±2.14), respectively; meanwhile CFSE-labeled and control BMDC had phagocytosis indices of 78.6% (±4.1) and 77.6% (±5.8), respectively ( fig. 3 ).
L39:Figure 2 CFSE-labeling does not alter phenotype. A) BMDM and BMDC were fluorescent-labeled with 2 µM CFSE. B) Representative dot plots (1 out of 3 independent experiments) show that control (CTR) and CFSE-labeled macrophages (CFSE) had similar CD11b and CD11c expression profiles.
L40:Figure 3 CF.SE-labeling does not alter functionality. The phagocytosis capacity of control and CFSE-labeled BMDM or CFSE-labeled BMDC were similar; 100 cells were counted; the experiment was repeated 3 times;  P >0.05.
L41:The  in vitro  study revealed that BMDM and BMDC became foamy cells as both accumulated lipids into their cytoplasm after infection with  N. brasiliensis,  whereas uninfected BMDM and BMDC did not ( fig. 4 ). CFSE-labeled BMDM and BMDC, transferred into 30-days lesions of experimental actinomycetoma induced by  N. brasiliensis,  could be traced 7 days later interspersed into the fibrotic ring of multilocular microabscesses, the typical site of foamy cells. The lipid droplet fluorophore Nile Red co-localized within the transferred cells, either BMDM or BMDC, as well as in recipient’s own cells that had accumulated lipid droplets ( fig. 5 ). On the other hand, non-adherent control cells were localized out of fibrotic area and did not accumulate lipid droplets. Thus, we demonstrated that macrophages  and  DC can be differentiated into foamy cells, both  in vitro  and  in vivo.
L42:Figure 4 Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM) and dendritic cells (BMDC) become lipid-laden after  in vitro  infection with  N. brasiliensis . Non-infected BMDM and BMDC (A) and BMDM and BMDC infected with  N. brasiliensis  were stained with Oil Red O as described in Materials and Methods. Only infected macrophages and dendritic cells were Oil Red O positive. (Images were taken at 100×magnification).
L91:24 Tomida M ,  Yamamoto-Yamaguchi Y ,  Hozumi M  ( 1984 )  Purification of a factor inducing differentiation of mouse myeloid leukemic M1 cells from conditioned medium of mouse fibroblast L929 cells .  J Biol Chem
[32ms]
