L18:Human dermal fibroblast derived iPSC line CRL-1 has been described before; and it was a kind gift from Dr Ludovic Vallier [ 16 ]. Undifferentiated CRL-1 was maintained on a monolayer of mitotically inactivated mouse embryonic feeder (MEF) cells in Advanced Dulbecco’s modified Eagles/F12 medium (DMEM/F12), supplemented with 20% Knockout replacement serum (KSR), 2mM L-Glutamine, β-mercaptoethanol (0.055 mM) and 8 ng/ml recombinant human FGF2 (RnD system); as described previously [ 9 ]. These cells were differentiated into Mϕs following a previously published method [ 9 ]; and any specific modification of this protocol is discussed in detail within the result section. Briefly, this protocol involves key stages of differentiation- i) formation of 3 germ layer containing embryoid bodies (EBs) from iPSCs on withdrawing FGF, ii) long term production of myeloid precursor cells from EBs in presence of 25ng/ml IL-3 and 50ng/ml M-CSF (both RnD) and iii) terminal differentiation and maturation of myeloid precursors into matured Mϕs in the presence of higher concentrations of M-CSF (100ng/ml).
L30:25μl of Mϕ culture supernatants were analysed for cytokine/chemokine concentrations. Millipore customised anti-human Milliplex magnetic bead kits were utilised as per manufacturers instruction and a selection of the analytes IFN-γ, GM-CSF, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p70 or IL-13 utilised. Data was acquired on a Luminex FlexMap3D and analysed with either Luminex or Masterplex QT software.
L40:A number of methods have been developed to differentiate Mϕs from human embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and iPSCs [ 8 , 9 ] and all employ key differentiation steps including- i) maintenance and expansion of iPSCs in culture, ii) formation of embryoid bodies (EB) harbouring three germ layers, iii) Generation of non-adherent myeloid precursor cells from EBs in the presence of the myelogenic cytokines IL-3 and M-CSF and iv) terminal differentiation and maturation of myeloid precursors into matured Mϕs in the presence of a higher concentration of M-CSF. A schematic diagram of individual differentiation steps and their phase contrast photomicrographs are depicted in  
L44:iPSCs were cultured on a monolayer of inactivated mouse feeder cells in serum containing advanced DMEM/F12 media and EBs were formed in either 10cm 2  Sterilin bacterial dishes, low adherence 96 wells or in Aggrewell plates respectively  ( Fig 1C ). Approximately similar numbers of EBs were divided into two groups and further cultured in either serum free X-vivo media or serum-containing advanced DMEM/F12 media supplemented with IL-3 and M-CSF. Two weeks after transferring the EBs into myeloid differentiation media non-adherent myeloid precursors started accumulating in the media. The numbers of these precursors were counted every week and the expression of the haematopoietic lineage marker CD34 and myeloid lineage marker CD14 were assessed by flow cytometry. We observed that in the initial weeks a relatively homogeneous population of cells accumulated in these cultures that are morphologically smaller (assessed by microscopy and forward and side scatter of FACS), express CD34 but lack CD14. These immature haematopoietic precursors failed to generate any iPSDMs in subsequent culture in the higher M-CSF concentration (data not shown). However, after a few weeks a separate precursor cell population appeared that were larger, had dendrite like structures and expressed both CD34 and CD14 on their surface. The percentage of these larger CD34+CD14+ myeloid precursors was directly correlated with yield of iPSDM  ( Fig 2A, 2B and 2C ) . To further characterise these two precursors, we FACS sorted these two populations and placed them separately into macrophage differentiation culture. After 7 days CD14+ larger precursors attached onto tissue culture plastic and developed a characteristic spindle shaped morphology of macrophages, whereas CD34+ smaller precursors did not convert into macrophages, became apoptotic and did not survive in M-CSF containing media ( Fig 3 ).Thus, we show that the formation of EBs by different methods has no significant impact on the frequency of myeloid precursors and the subsequent yield of mature Mϕs. However, the presence of serum in myeloid differentiation media significantly compromised the differentiation of myeloid precursors from EBs. Therefore, in all subsequent experiments X-vivo serum free media was used to differentiate EBs into myeloid precursors.
L45:Fig 2 Effects of foetal calf serum on generation of macrophage progenitors. (A) Forward and side scatter of myeloid precursor cells collected at different time points show a time dependent accumulation of larger granular cells (depicted in p3 gate in blue) that correlates with number of matured Mϕs obtained in subsequent differentiation steps. (B) EB’s generated in 10cm 2  dishes, round bottomed 96 wells or Aggrewell plates were cultured in myeloid differentiation media containing IL-3 and M-CSF in the presence or absence of serum. Numbers of accumulated myeloid precursor cells were counted every week and cumulative numbers over a 2 month period are plotted in the graph. (C) Line diagram showing percentage of myeloid precursor cells that are positive for the haematopoietic lineage marker CD34 and the myeloid lineage marker CD14.
L48:Terminal differentiation of iPSC derived myeloid precursors in the presence of higher concentrations of M-CSF induced a homogenous looking population of adherent cells that are morphologically similar to mature macrophages. To further assess the phenotypic characteristics of these iPSDMs, global gene expression profiles of undifferentiated iPS cells and iPSDMs were compared by RNASeq and mRNA expression of a range of well-established Mϕmarkers were detected ( Fig 4 ). Furthermore, FACS showed that iPSDM express high levels of CD11c, CD14, CD16, CD44, CD64, CD54, CD200R, CD206 and CD68 and to a lesser extent CD163 on their cell surface, indicating that iPSDMs are phenotypically very similar to mature human Mϕs  ( Fig 5A ) . Furthermore, these cells did not detectably express activation markers such as HLA-DR and CD86, indicating that the differentiation protocol allows them to fully mature but does not significantly immunologically activate them  ( Fig 5A ) . By contrast, treatment with either the T helper cell 1 (Th1) associated cytokine IFN-γ or the (Th2) associated cytokine IL-4 polarise the Mϕs into so-called classical and alternative activation states respectively. Further, the surface expression of HLA-DR and CD206, two established markers of classical and alternative activations were significantly upregulated following IFN-γ and IL-4 treatment respectively ( Fig 5B ).
L80:Host and pathogen factors that contribute to species restriction and intracellular adaptations of  S . Typhi are poorly defined. Since pluripotent (ES and iPS) stem cells are particularly amenable to genetic manipulation, Mϕs derived from mutant iPSCs can be utilised to study specific gene function during infection; or genome-wide mutant libraries can be screened to discover new candidate genes involved in host defence against Salmonella and potentially other human adapted pathogens. Monocyte-derived Mϕs are the most accessible primary Mϕ population and are regarded as a gold standard in human Mϕ research, but these bone marrow-derived patrolling population are not true representatives of tissue resident mature Mϕs that originate from primitive haematopoietic precursors in early embryonic life and locally self-renew within adult tissues [ 27 ]. There is significant phenotypic and functional heterogeneity among tissue resident Mϕs and pathogens often show tropism for specific tissue resident Mϕ populations. Currently, options are limited to study pathogen interactions with tissue resident Mϕ populations. iPSC derived  in vitro  haematopoiesis resembles primitive haematopoiesis, and iPSDMs share phenotypic similarities with embryo-derived Mϕs [ 28 ]. In future, as our knowledge matures about specific signals and transcription factors that regulate development of tissue resident Mϕs, iPSDMs can be further reprogrammed into specific tissue resident populations. Some success is already achieved in developing selected tissue Mϕ populations [ 29 , 30 ].
L102:8 Karlsson KR ,  Cowley S ,  Martinez FO ,  Shaw M ,  Minger SL ,  et al  ( 2008 )  Homogeneous monocytes and macrophages from human embryonic stem cells following coculture-free differentiation in M-CSF and IL-3 .  Exp Hematol
[36ms]
