L7:The ability to differentiate genetically modified mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells into functional macrophages provides a potentially attractive resource to study host-pathogen interactions without the need for animal experimentation. This is particularly useful in instances where the gene of interest is essential and a knockout mouse is not available. Here we differentiated mouse ES cells into macrophages in vitro and showed, through a combination of flow cytometry, microscopic imaging, and RNA-Seq, that ES cell-derived macrophages responded to  S.  Typhimurium, in a comparable manner to mouse bone marrow derived macrophages. We constructed a homozygous mutant mouse ES cell line in the Traf2 gene that is known to play a role in tumour necrosis factor-α signalling but has not been studied for its role in infections or response to Toll-like receptor agonists. Interestingly,  traf2 -deficient macrophages produced reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or flagellin stimulation and exhibited increased susceptibility to  S.  Typhimurium infection.
L11:To differentiate mouse ES cells to macrophages, we adapted and modified the approach of Zhuang et al. 8  ( Fig. 1a ). Briefly, the procedure involved placing ES cells into 10 cm bacteriological (low-adherence) plates in macrophage differentiation medium (MDM; which lacked the inhibitor of differentiation, LIF, and contained L929 conditioned medium and IL3); this step led to the generation of embryoid bodies (EB). After 6–8 days, the generated EBs in MDM were transferred into gelatinized tissue culture plates to promote adherence of the EB onto the plate and differentiation. Subsequently, supernatants containing non-adherent macrophage progenitors were collected every second day, and adherent macrophages were generated by plating onto low adherence bacteriological plates in MDM; substantial numbers of macrophages appeared after 4 days, with 5 to 10 million macrophages/plate being generated every 2 days from days 14–18. The ESDM were adherent and had long extended plasma projections resembling pseudopodia. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that these ESDM were morphologically indistinguishable from murine BMDMs, exhibiting a large cellular size with a cytoplasm containing vacuoles and organelles and low nuclear to cytoplasm ratios ( Fig. 1b ). This was in contrast to undifferentiated ES cells that had large nuclei and few organelles. ESDM were characterized by flow cytometry to monitor the expression of stem cell pluripotency and macrophage markers. ESDM displayed markers characteristic of macrophages, including the expression of CD11b, F4/80, CD14 and CD68, while staining negative for the ES cell pluripotency markers Oct3/4 and SSEA-1 ( Fig. 1c ). Our lab has performed RNA-Seq to compare gene expression of undifferentiated mouse ES cells with that of ESDMs (Yeung ATY and Dougan G, unpublished). The RNA-Seq data revealed upregulation of several macrophage markers, including F4/80, CD11b, CD16, CD64, with fold changes of 1480, 981, 715, 859, respectively in ESDM. Dendritic cell markers CD103 and DEC205 were downregulated with fold changes of −2 and −143, respectively. There were no changes indicated in the RNA-Seq data for expression of CD8 or CD4. Although, we showed that ESDMs expressed low levels of CD11c with a fold change of 2 compared to ES cells, it is known that most macrophages express low to intermediate amounts of CD11c 9 .
L12:To test whether ESDM could recognize and respond to bacterial signals, we stimulated ESDM, BMDM, or undifferentiated ES cells with LPS (agonist of Toll-like receptor, TLR4) flagellin (TLR5 agonist), CpG ODN-1826 (TLR9 agonist), or poly (I: C) (TLR3 agonist) for 4 hours. Stimulated ESDM produced high levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, TNFα, IP10, KC, MIP1α and MIP1β ( Table 1A ). Similar responses were observed for BMDM while no detectable levels of any of the tested cytokines or chemokines were produced by undifferentiated ES cells without or with any of the tested agonists (data not shown).
L14:Next we investigated interactions between ESDM and the facultative intracellular enteric pathogen  S.  Typhimurium, using SL1344 (p1C/1,  ssaG ::GFP), which expresses GFP under the control of the  Salmonella  pathogenicity island-2 (SPI-2) -associated promoter  ssaG , which is activated when  Salmonella  form an intracellular Salmonella Containing Vacuole (SCV). Four hours post challenge, ~28% of the F4/80 +  ESDM population and 21% of F4/80 +  BMDM harboured intracellular  S . Typhimurium ( Fig. 2a ). Similarly, using a gentamicin resistance assay, ESDMs and BMDMs showed similar numbers of viable bacteria based on colony forming units (CFUs) recovered at 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours post challenge ( Fig. 2b ). Moreover, the numbers similarly diminished over time, indicating intracellular killing. In contrast, while mouse ES cells also phagocytosed  Salmonella , but less efficiently, this bacterium was not killed and indeed grew inside ES cells ( Fig. 2b ). When ESDM were primed overnight with IFNγ, prior to conducting the invasion assay, like normal macrophages they became activated and substantially more efficient at intracellular bacterial killing ( Fig. 2c ).
L16:In murine BMDM infected with  Salmonella , multiple chemokines and pro-inflammatory cytokines are induced, including MIP1α, MIP1β, KC, IP10, and TNFα 12  (see  Supplementary Table S1 ). No detectable levels of cytokines were found here in undifferentiated ES cells before or after infection with  Salmonella . In contrast,  S.  Typhimurium-infected ESDM demonstrated strong production of chemokines and cytokines in the supernatants as early as 1 h after infection, and the levels increased over time, eventually matching those of LPS- and flagellin-stimulated ESDM ( Table 1B ). Similarly at 6 h post-infection both ESDM ( Fig. 2h ) and BMDM (data not shown), produced significant levels of iNOS, which is known to play a role in controlling  Salmonella  proliferation in macrophages 13 .
L17:RNA-Seq analysis of ESDM and BMDM infected with  S.  Typhimurium
L18:Phenotypic analyses of ESDM and murine BMDM revealed that these cells shared similar functional properties. To probe this in greater detail, we analysed and compared the transcriptomes of uninfected and  S.  Typhimurium-infected ESDM and BMDM. Gene expression was assessed by RNA-Seq, 4 hr post-infection. Comparing infected to uninfected cells, 3,728 genes were commonly differentially expressed (DE) genes in both ESDM and BMDM [Fold change (FC) of ≥ 2 or ≤ −2 at an adjusted p-value of <0.01] (a full list of DE genes is available on line at  http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/ERP002100  and is provided to the reviewers in  supplementary and additional material ). Up- and down-regulated genes were separately submitted to the innate immunity interactome database and analysis platform InnateDB, and over-representation (OR) analyses carried out. Despite modest differences in culturing methods, unstimulated BMDM and ESDM expressed 12,599 genes in common (read count cut-off of 4), including known macrophage markers, and 93% of these were expressed to a similar level.
L19:Of the 3,728 DE genes shared by both ESDM and BMDM, a total of 73 pathways were found to be significantly over-represented (corrected p-value < 0.05), with 61 up-regulated pathways and 12 down-regulated pathways. More than 90% of the significantly up-regulated pathways were related to innate immunity and/or associated with response to pathogens (see  Supplementary Table S2 ). These pathways included NOD-like receptor signalling, cytosolic DNA-sensing, cytokine and chemokine signalling, MAPK signalling, TLR signalling, IFNγ signalling, Type I interferon signalling, complement signalling, and JAK-STAT signalling. Network analysis 14  indicated that the major hub proteins in the most highly interconnected network were typical innate immune signalling and effector molecules downstream of Toll-like receptors, including Nfkb1, Nfkb2, Irf1, Myd88, Traf2, Traf1, Cebpb, Socs3, Stat6, Src, Tnf, Il6, etc ( Fig. 3 ).
L20:In accordance with the phenotypes observed after ESDM interaction with  S.  Typhimurium, transcriptomic analysis revealed 1,557 up-regulated genes including strong induction of the inducible NO synthase (Nos2) in infected ESDM (FC = 1,905; for this and all other genes described below similar up-regulation was observed in infected BMDM). Highly elevated expression levels were also observed in infected ESDM for genes encoding cytokines including IL1α (FC = 1461), IL1β (FC = 544), IL6 (FC = 700), IL12β (FC = 877), and chemokines including, CCL3 (MIP1α) (FC = 232), CCL4 (MIP1β) (FC = 568), CXCL9 (MIG) (FC = 488), and CXCL10 (IP10) (FC = 271). Anti-inflammatory IL10, which plays a role in controlling the inflammatory response during  Salmonella  infection was also up-regulated (FC = 72.4).  Salmonella  infection is known to elevate macrophage expression of surface receptors involved in communication with other cells of the immune system. Here, we observed up-regulation of CD40 (FC = 288), mannose receptor 2 (Mrc2) (FC = 9.8), CD86 (FC = 72), and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes H2-Aa (FC = 211) and H2-Ab1 (FC = 33.5). In addition, there was up-regulation, in infected ESDM, of genes involved in apoptosis including Casp1 (FC = 6.5), Casp4 (FC = 22.8), Casp7 (FC = 2.6), and Malt1 (FC = 23). Interestingly, our RNA-Seq experiment revealed significant up-regulation in infected ESDM and BMDM of 3 genes that we recently found to be critical in murine  Salmonella  infections, namely Rassf1 (FC = 2.5), Dusp1 (FC = 10), and Trex1 (FC = 9.7) ( https://www.sanger.ac.uk/mouseportal/ ).
L21:Of the 2171 genes down-regulated upon  Salmonella  infection in ESDM and BMDM, 12 significantly over-represented pathways were identified. The majority of these pathways were associated with energy metabolism, including fatty acid β-oxidation, glycolysis and branched chain amino acid catabolism which might play a role in Salmonella infection and/or control of intracellular growth. Moreover, gene ontology (GO) term over-representation analysis, using Innate DB, revealed significant down-regulation of other cellular processes during macrophage infection related to cell proliferation, including cell cycle, cell division, and DNA replication. Genes that were dysregulated in only one of the two cell types tended to have low read counts and did not tend to cluster into pathways suggesting that these reflect stochastic variations and/or experimental differences in their derivation.
L23:To further illustrate the attractive potential of using macrophages differentiated from ES cells to study macrophage function, we explored the potential use of these cells to uncover novel functions of host genes for which mutations induce a lethal phenotype in homozygous mice. Our RNA-Seq study showed that the  traf2  gene was significantly up-regulated in infected ESDM and BMDM (FC = 3.1). TNF receptor associated factor 2 (Traf2) has been reported to play an important role in inflammatory processes, programmed cell death, and interferon responses due to its ability to be activated by TNFα 15 . It is part of a family of proteins that function as adaptor molecules for TNF superfamily members by associating with the intracellular domain of these receptors to mediate downstream signalling events such as NFκB and AP-1 activation. It is a major hub protein and interacts with between 359 and 512 different proteins based on experimentally verified and orthology-predicted interactions in the curated database InnateDB. These include a variety of direct binders that have been studied in detail, including CD27, CD30, CD40, CD137, TNFR2, receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (RANK), and cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein-1 (cIAP-1) 16 17 18 19 . Intriguingly however a role in innate immunity and bacterial infection has not been described.
L34:To validate using ESDM in place of BMDM, we showed by transmission electron microscopy that ESDM were indistinguishable in morphology and size from BMDMs. Flow cytometry revealed that ESDM had lost ES cell markers and had gained macrophage markers. In contrast, there was limited overlap in genes expressed in undifferentiated ES cells and ESDM (Yeung ATY and Dougan G, unpublished). It is important to note that here we compared ESDMs to BMDMs since the latter are derived in an analogous manner from progenitor cells in the mouse and represent the most common model for studying ex vivo macrophage biology. Nevertheless there are other models that could have been used such as primary cultured macrophages or peripheral blood monocyte-derived macrophages, and macrophages are known to differentiate into a spectrum of macrophage phenotypes, and we cannot extrapolate our results to these situations.
L35:We also investigated the applicability of using ESDM to study host-pathogen interactions  in vitro  by treating ESDM with a series of TLR agonists to reveal significant up-regulation of various inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Similar to BMDM, ESDM were capable of internalizing the facultative intracellular pathogenic bacterium  S.  Typhimurium. Transmission electron microscopy studies revealed phagocytosed  S.  Typhimurium became internalized within a SCV. Moreover, while  S.  Typhimurium mediated recruitment of Lamp-1 to the SCV, there was limited fusion with lysosomes, a phenomenon similarly observed for  Salmonella -infected BMDM. Comparison of transcriptome profiles of ESDM and BMDM by RNA Seq after infection with  S.  Typhimurium revealed a major overlap with a total of 3,728 commonly affected genes. A substantial proportion of these were involved in host defences and immune recognition, signalling pathways and responses. Taken together our data indicate that ESDM represent functional macrophages that behave similarly to primary macrophages.
L49:Mouse ES cells were differentiated into monocytes as previously described 8 . To form EB, ES cells were seeded at 6 × 10 5  cells/9 cm bacteriological dish (90 mm Sterilin 101Vr20 triple vent) in 20 ml of macrophage differentiation medium (MDM) for 6-8 days. MDM is similar to complete Glucose Minimal Essential Medium (GMEM; Gibco) with the exception that the differentiation inhibitor Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (LIF) was excluded from the medium and the medium was supplemented with 15% L929 conditioned medium and 1 ng/ml IL-3 (RnD). To obtained conditioned medium, L929 fibroblasts were cultured in Dulbecco's minimal essential medium (DMEM) (Sigma) supplemented with 10% FBS (Sigma), 2 mM glutamine and 1% penicillin/streptomycin (Sigma). Three days after they had reached confluence, conditioned medium was harvested from adherent L929 cells, filtered through a 0.22 μm membrane and stored in aliquots at −20°C. Six to 8 days old EB were transferred onto gelatin-treated tissue culture dishes (100 mm TC treated corning 430167, 150 mm TC treated Corning 430599). Starting on day 4, after transfer, supernatants of adherent EB containing floating macrophage progenitors were collected and plated onto bacteriological low adherence dishes; medium was re-added to the adherent EB plates and the process repeated every 2 days.
L51:Macrophage progenitors from the supernatant of adherent EB dishes, after plating onto bacteriological low adherence dishes, were cultured for up to 7 days to form an adherent macrophage monolayer on a 10 cm bacteriological dish with 20 ml of RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 2 mM glutamine, 10% heat-inactivated FBS and 15% L929 conditioned medium. The adherent ESDMs were harvested by adding lidocaine solution (4 mg/ml lidocaine-HCl containing 5 mM EDTA in Dulbecco's phosphate-buffered saline and gentle scraping using a Cell Lifter.
L52:Preparation of BMDM from mice
L53:Mice (129 line, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute) of 5–10 weeks old were sacrificed by cervical dislocation. The care and use of mice were in accordance with the UK Home Office regulations (UK Animals Scientific Procedures Act 1986). Bone marrow was obtained by flushing the tibia and femurs with PBS. The cells were centrifuged at 1,100 rpm for 5 min, at 4°C and the resultant pellet re-suspended with RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 15% L929 conditioned medium, 10% heat-inactivated FBS, 2 mM glutamine and 1% penicillin/streptomycin and transferred to a Petri dish. The macrophage progenitors were cultured for a week to allow the cells to attach and divide until there was a confluent monolayer of macrophages on the dish.
L55:Mouse ES cells or macrophages (ESDM or BMDM) were seeded into either 6-well plates (2.5 × 10 5  cells/well for ESC, 1 × 10 6  cells/ml for ESDM or BMDM) or 24-well plates (0.5 × 10 5  cells/well for ESC, 1 × 10 6  cells/well for ESDM or BMDM) and cultured for 1–2 days.  S.  Typhimurium was grown at 37°C shaking for 4.5 h and then diluted 1:50 in L broth and grown at 37°C overnight as a static culture to optimize  Salmonella  pathogenicity island 1 (SPI-1) gene expression. The bacterial cultures were diluted in RPMI-1640 (Sigma) containing 10% (v/v) heat-inactivated FBS (Sigma) and 2 mM glutamine to obtain a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 50. After 30 min of incubation, cells were washed with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and gentamicin (50 μg/ml) was added to kill extracellular bacteria. Cells were incubated for the indicated length of time and lysed with 1% Triton X-100. Dilutions of the cell lysates were plated onto L agar plates to determine the number of intracellular bacteria colony forming units (CFU).
L61:For flow cytometry, cells were lifted off from the surface of culture wells (trypsin for mouse ES cells and lidocaine for ESDM and BMDM), fixed with 1% paraformaldehyde and incubated with specific conjugated antibodies, including F4/80, CD11b, SSEA-1, Oct3/4, CD68 and CD14. For the intracellular markers, cells were permeabilized with saponin buffer. Isotype matched antibodies conjugated to the same fluorophores were used as negative controls. Samples were analysed using the FACSAria II (BD Biosciences).
L63:Mouse ES cells, ESDM and BMDM were separately incubated with various TLR agonists, including lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from  S. enterica  (100 ng/ml; Sigma), flagellin from  S.  Typhimurium (1 μg/ml; Invivogen), CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG ODN, 10 μg/ml; Invivogen), or polyinosinic: polycytidylic acid (polyIC, 5 μg/ml; Invivogen) for 4 h. Culture supernatants were harvested, sterile filtered and frozen at −80°C until assayed. Mouse tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), interleukin 6 (IL6), IL1α, IL1β, interferon γ-induced protein (IP10), keratinocyte chemoattractant (KC), macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)1α, MIP1β were measured using a Luminex FLEXMAP 3D system (Millipore). Data analysis was carried out using the xPONENT Multiplex Assay Analysis software (Millipore).
L65:ESDM and BMDM were separately infected or not with  S.  Typhimurium for 30 min, and then cells were washed and gentamicin-treated to kill any remaining extracellular bacteria and prevent further infection. Gene expression was measured by RNA-Seq after 4 h post-infection. Total RNA from 4 separate studies (biological repeats) of uninfected and  S.  Typhimurium infected ESDM and BMDM were isolated using the RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen). The total RNA quantity was assessed by Spectrophotometer NanoDrop-1000 v3.1.0 (Thermo Scientific) and the RNA quality was analysed using the 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent), following the manufacturer's instructions. Total RNA was converted into libraries of double stranded cDNA using the Illumina TruSeq RNA Sample Preparation v2 Kit. mRNA was purified from 5 μg of total RNA using an oligo dT magnetic bead pull down. Fragmentation was carried out using metal ion-catalyzed hydrolysis. A random-primed cDNA library was synthesized and the resulting double-stranded cDNA was used as the input for library preparation. Overhangs were repaired with a combination of fill-in reactions and exonuclease activity to produce blunt ends. Adenylation of blunt ends was followed by ligation to Illumina Pair-end Sequencing adapters containing unique index sequences. cDNA enrichment was carried out by 10 cycles of PCR amplification. Samples were quantified and pooled based on post-PCR analyses with an Agilent Bioanalyzer. Pools were size-selected using the LabChip XT Caliper. The multiplexed library was then sequenced on the Illumina HiSeq 2000, 75 bp paired-end read length. The range of total reads per biological sample was from 34 to 165.2 million reads of which 77–84% could be mapped to version mm10 of the mouse reference genome.
L66:Each lane of Illumina sequence was assessed for quality based on GC content, average base quality and Illumina adapter contamination. The Burrows-Wheeler Aligner alignment tool 34  version 0.6.1-r104 was used to align the reads to the reference mouse genome version mm10. Gene expression values (RPKM) were computed from the read alignments to the coding sequencing using an in-house script. Differentially expressed genes were calculated by the DESeq package 35  in R software using two-fold change [log 2 (fold-change)] and adjusted p-value < 0.05 (cut-off at 5% false discovery rate (FDR)) as the threshold. Analyses of infected vs. uninfected cells, revealed 6,387 and 5,579 differentially expressed (DE) genes, for ESDM and BMDM respectively, with a fold change (FC) ≥ 2 or ≤ −2 at an adjusted p-value of <0.01 (Accession number ERP002100 at  http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/data/view/ERP002100 ). Of these 3728 were commonly dysregulated and many genes that were not found to be commonly dysregulated had very low sequence counts, and might well have been non-active transcripts.
L73:Figure 1 Characteristics of macrophages derived from mouse ES cells. (a) Schematic diagram describing the differentiation procedure from mouse ES cells to macrophages. Phase contrast images under the time line display from left to right images of mouse undifferentiated ES cells, an EB, and ESDM. Scale bars 200 μm. (b) Transmission electron microscopy images of ES cell, ESDM, and BMDM. (c) Flow cytometry analysis of ES cells and ESDM. Red lines represent cells stained with control isotype, blue lines are cells stained with the relevant antibody.
L74:Figure 2 Phenotypic analyses of  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 (pSsaG)-infected ESDM and BMDM. (a) Representative flow cytometry of infected ESDM (left) and BMDM (right), after 4 h post-infection assessing the numbers of cell containing internalized GFP expressing  S.  Typhimurium SL1344 (pSsaG), (b) Bacterial viable cell counts enumerated from untreated ESDM, BMDM (combined left), ES cells (right), (c) IFNγ-pre-treated and un-treated ESDM, infected for various time points by the gentamicin assay (please note that the number of bacterial cells internalized in Fig. 2c was higher by about 3 fold compared to Fig. 2b, due to intrinsic variability and the different cell batches used). Confocal images of ESDM infected with  S.  Typhimurium stained with DAPI (blue) for the ESDM nucleus and either (d) anti-CSA-1 (red), (e) anti-Lamp-1 (red), and (f) caspase staining reagent SR-VAD-FMK. Upper left panels nuclei-stained only, upper right panels GFP- expressing  S.  Typhimurium inside SCV only, lower left CSA-1 (d), Lamp-1 (e) or caspase (f)-stained only, lower right merged images. Scale bars 10 μm. (g) Transmission electron microscopy image of  S.  Typhimurium localized within SCV of an ESDM. Arrows point to SCV. (h) Nitrite production measured in the culture supernatants of uninfected and infected samples of ESDM at 6 h post-infection.
L202:Supplementary Table S1: Concentrations of cytokines and chemokines produced by BMDM after 4 h stimulation with various TLR agonists or infection with S. Typhimurium SL1344 (p1C/1, ssaG::GFP).
L212:Supplementary Table S2: Innate DB over-representation pathways by ESDMs and BMDMs at 4 hours post-infection.
[120ms]
