L6:Tissue-resident macrophages are heterogeneous with tissue-specific and niche-specific functions. Thus, simplified models of macrophage activation do not explain the extent of heterogeneity seen  in vivo . We focus here on the respiratory tract and ask whether factors secreted by alveolar epithelial cells (AEC) can influence the functionality of resident pulmonary macrophages (PuM). We have previously reported that factors secreted by AEC increase control of intracellular growth of BCG in macrophages. In the current study, we also aimed to investigate possible mechanisms by which AEC-derived factors increase intracellular control of BCG in both primary murine interstitial macrophages, and bone marrow-derived macrophages and characterize further the effect of these factors on macrophage differentiation. We show that; a) in contrast to other macrophage types, IFN-γ did not increase intracellular growth control of  Mycobacterium bovis , Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) by interstitial pulmonary macrophages although the same macrophages could be activated by factors secreted by AEC; b) the lack of response of pulmonary macrophages to IFN-γ was apparently regulated by suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS)1; c) AEC-derived factors did not induce pro-inflammatory pathways induced by IFN-γ e.g. expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), secretion of nitric oxide (NO), or IL-12, d) in contrast to IFN-γ, intracellular bacterial destruction induced by AEC-derived factors was not dependent on iNOS transcription and NO production. Collectively, our data show that PuM were restricted in inflammatory responses mediated by IFN-γ through SOCS1 and that factors secreted by AEC- enhanced the microbicidal capacities of macrophages by iNOS independent mechanisms.
L25:Generation of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMM)
L26:BMM were harvested and frozen as previously described  [21] . After thawing, the bone marrow cells were cultured in complete RPMI supplemented with 20% L929 cell conditioned medium (as a source of macrophage colony-stimulating factor) and cultured for 6–7 days, replacing medium every second day. Before use, growth factor-containing media were removed and the BMM cultured in complete RPMI for 24 h. BMM from caspase 1 -/-  mice were kindly provided by S. Musciol and B. Henriques-Normark (MTC, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden)
L28:BMM, PuM, AM and PEM were cultured in 48 or 12-well plates as described above 1×10 5  and 4×10 5  cells per well respectively. Cells were kept with complete RPMI without antibiotics for 24 h prior to infection with GFP-BCG at a MOI 10∶1 (bacteria:cell) for 4 h. After infection, cells were washed three times and treated with gentamicin (100 µg/ml) for 30–60 min at 37°C. After further washing, cells were either kept untreated or treated with 20 ng/ml of IFN-γ (Mabtech, Sweden), or IL-1β (1 or 10 ng/ml) or AEC sup  (diluted 1∶2 in cell culture media). For inhibition of iNOS 1 mM of N G -monomethyl-L-arginine (NMMLA) (Sigma) was added together with either IFN-γ or AEC sup . For reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the cultures, cells were incubated with the ROS scavengers superoxide dismutase (SOD, 15 U/ml, Sigma-Aldrich) and catalase 500 µg/ml (Sigma-Aldrich). The bacterial loads were measured by determining RLU and data is displayed as RLU/10 6  cells.
L30:Total RNA was harvested from BMM or PuM untreated or treated with either IFN-γ or AEC sup  at 4 or 24 h after the end of BCG infection using QIAzol Lysis Reagent (Qiagen). After isolation, the RNA was run on a 1% agarose gel to verify that the RNA was intact. RT-PCR was performed on 1 µg of RNA using SuperScript III Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen) with Oligo(dT) 20  Primers (Invitrogen). Transcripts were quantified on a RotorGene 6000 real-time PCR cycler (Corbett Life Sciences) using Kapa Sybrfast qPCR Kit (Kapa Biosystems). Primer sequences used were: iNOS sense:  CAGCTCGGCTGTACAAACCTT , antisense:  CATTGGAAGTGAAGCGTTTCG , IL-1β sense:  TGGTGTGTGACGTTCCCATT  antisense:  CAGCACGAGGCTTTTTTGTTG , Arg-1 sense:  GCAGTGGCTTTAACCTTGGC , antisense:  TGGCGCATTCACAGTCACTT . HPRT sense  CCC AGC GTC GTG ATT AGC , antisense  GGA ATA AAC ACT TTT TCC AAA TCC  was used as a control gene and used to calculate dCt values. To determine the effect of treatment with IFN-γ or AEC sup , values were normalized to that of cells infected with BCG receiving no treatment and the fold induction (RQ) calculated.
L32:Cytokines and nitrite (an indirect indicator of NO production) were measured in cell culture supernatants from BMM and PuM un-treated or treated with either IFN-γ or AEC sup  at 4, 24 and 48 h after the end of infection with BCG. For ELISA determinations, the commercially, TNF, IL-6, CXCL10/Interferon gamma-induced protein 10 kDa (IP-10), IL-1β (R&D Systems) and IL-12, (Mabtech) were used to determine the cytokine levels in the culture supernatants according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The enzyme-substrate reaction was developed using p-nitrophenyl phosphate (Sigma) for IL-12 and tetramethylbenzidine substrate (R&D Systems) for the rest of determinations. Depending on the substrate used, the optical density was measured in a multiscan ELISA reader (Anthos Labtech Instruments, Salzburg, Austria) at 405 or 450 nm. NO production was determined by measuring nitrite concentration using the Griess reaction according to the manufacturers protocol (Sigma).
L34:BMM were prepared as described above and then pretreated with either IFN-γ (20 ng/ml) or AEC sup  (diluted 1∶2 in cell culture medium) for 24 h. Cells were then infected with BCG (MOI 1∶10) and 500 µM luminol (Sigma) added to the cultures. Plates were then placed in an EnSpire Multimode Plate Reader (PerkinElmer) and luminescence monitored at 37°C every 3 min for 15 h.
L39:Since IFN-γ is known to mediate the microbicidal activation of macrophages against mycobacteria  [22]  we evaluated the response of PuM and BMM to IFN-γ. BMM and PuM were infected with GFP-BCG as described in  Materials and Methods , treated with different concentrations of IFN-γ (20, 40 and 80 ng/ml) or left untreated. Bacterial loads were monitored by measuring RLU. As expected, BMM reduced the intracellular bacterial content upon treatment with IFN-γ ( Figure 1 ). In contrast, PuM were not able to reduce bacterial load even after treatment with doses of IFN-γ as high as 80 ng/ml ( Figure 1 ). We further evaluated whether PuM needed to be activated prior to mycobacterial infection since it has been described that IFN-γ “activated” macrophages could better control mycobacteria growth  [23] ,  [24] . For this, PuM were treated with IFN-γ prior infection and bacterial loads monitored. We found that PuM pre-treated with IFN-γ were still unable to control intracellular BCG growth ( Fig S1 ).
L40:Figure 1 Impaired intracellular control of BCG growth by PuM upon IFN-γ treatment. BMM and PuM were infected with GFP-BCG. After infection, cells were left untreated or treated with IFN-γ (20, 40 and 80 ng/ml) for 48 h. Bacterial growth was evaluated by determining RLU. Data are shown as % reduction of phagocytosed bacteria evaluated as RLU. Values are means ± SD of the mean of a representative experiment from 3 independent experiments with 4 replicates each. The differences between groups of BMM and PuM were analyzed using a one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni‘s Multiple Comparison Test, * significantly different from medium control, P<0.05.
L44:IFN-γ and AEC sup  induce different cytokine profiles in PuM and BMM
L45:To further understand the different responses elicited in PuM and BMM by AEC sup  and IFN-γ, we stimulated the two cell types  in vitro  as described in  Materials and Methods  and collected supernatants 4 and 24 h later. We monitored the production of IL-12, IP-10 and IL-6 since these factors are associated with IFN-γ mediated signaling through the activation of receptor-associated JAKs. Two major observations are obvious from the data shown in  Figure 3 . Firstly, comparing the stimulation capacity of IFN-γ and AEC sup , the secretory profile was different in both cell types. AEC sup  did not induce production of IL-12 and IP-10 statistically above that of unstimulated cells but induced IL-6 secretion significantly in BMM at 4 h. Similarly, AEC sup  also tended to increase IL-6 secretion in PuMSecondly, although the profile of stimulation was similar, the secretion of all factors measured was lower in PuM compared with BMM.
L46:Figure 3 IFN-γ and AECsup induce different cytokine profiles in PuM and BMM. BMM and PuM were infected with GFP-BCG. After infection, cells were left untreated or treated with either IFN-γ or AEC sup . Cell culture supernatants were collected at 4 and 24 h after treatments. IL-12, IP-10 and IL-6, levels were measured using ELISA. Values are expressed as means ± SD, from 3 independent experiments. The differences between groups of PuM and BMM were analyzed using a one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni‘s Multiple Comparison Test, * Significantly different from medium control, p<0.05.
L49: [19] . Thus, we evaluated the effects of IFN-γ and AEC sup  treatments on intracellular BCG control by PuM from IFN-γ -/- SOCS1 -/-  mice. After IFN-γ treatment, PuM from IFN-γ -/- SOCS1 -/-  mice controlled intracellular growth of BCG, to a similar extent as cells treated with AEC sup,  indicating that the lack of response to IFN-γ is likely not due to lack of surface IFN-γ receptor expression but rather that the response is under regulation of SOCS1 ( Figure 4a ). However, there were no differences seen in SOCS1 expression between BMM and PuM and both cell types upregulated SOCS1 upon stimulation with IFN-γ indicating that the selective lack of response to IFN-γ in PuM was not due to a lack of SOCS1 but rather an event downstream of SOCS1 (data not shown). Treating cells with both IFN-γ and AEC sup  tended to show an additive effect suggesting independent mechanisms of intracellular bacterial control ( Figure 4a ). Similarly to the results observed in the wild type mice, upon treatment with IFN-γ, the levels of IL-12 induced in PuM derived from IFN-γ -/- SOCS1 -/-  mice were lower than in BMM (data not shown) Thus, reduced IL-12 secretion may not only be subjected to SOCS1 regulation but also to other mechanisms inherent to different tissue-derived macrophages.
L52:Up-regulation of iNOS and the subsequent synthesis of reactive nitrogen species is currently believed to be one of the primary mechanisms downstream of IFN-γ-induced killing of mycobacteria  [22] . On the other hand, Arg-1 can compete with iNOS for their common substrate L-arginine, and consequently, the expression of iNOS and Arg-1 is often reciprocally regulated in macrophages  [26] . To reveal possible mechanisms for the observed intracellular bacterial control, we followed the expression of iNOS and Arg-1 induced in PuM and BMM upon treatment with AEC sup  or IFN-γ. We found that IFN-γ but not AEC sup  induced iNOS in both BMM and PuM ( Figure 5a ). In contrast, in both PuM and BMM, Arg-1 was induced only by AEC sup  and not by IFN-γ ( Figure 5b ). Notably, the levels of Arg-1 induced in BMM were higher than the levels induced in PuM. Addition of NMMLA, an inhibitor of iNOS, to cultures of BMM infected with BCG and treated with AEC sup  or IFN-γ, inhibited the bacterial load reduction mediated by IFN-γ but had no effect on AEC sup  activity ( Figure 5c ) confirming that AEC sup  increased intracellular killing using an iNOS independent pathway.
L53:Figure 5 AEC sup  has opposite effects to IFN-γ on iNOS, and Arg-1 expression in BMM and PuM and mediates killing through an iNOS independent mechanism. BMM and PuM were infected with GFP-BCG. After infection, cells were treated with either IFN-γ or AEC sup  or 1 mM of NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (NMMLA) together with either IFN-γ or AEC sup  or left untreated. Total RNA was extracted from both cell-types after 4 and 24 h of treatment and the mean-fold accumulation of a) iNOS, b) Arg-1 ± SD from 3-4 experiments. In c) the effect of the iNOS inhibitor NMMLA on intracellular growth of BCG is shown. Bacterial growth was evaluated by determining RLU. Data are expressed as mean ± SD. The differences between groups of BMM and PuM were analyzed using non-parametric, one-way ANOVA (Kruskal-Wallis) with Dunn‘s post-test. * significantly different from medium control, P<0.05
L55:IL-1β has been shown to be involved in the intracellular killing of mycobacteria through the induction of autophagy related mechanisms  [27] . We therefore investigated whether AEC sup  affect IL-1β production. We observed a difference in the profile of induction of this interleukin by the two stimuli where only AEC sup  induced IL-1β transcription ( Figure 6a ) and secretion ( Figure 6b ) above that of cells only infected with BCG. We next tested whether this increase in IL-1β secretion in AEC sup -treated BMM might mediate the increased intracellular killing of BCG by these cells. However, addition of exogenous IL-1β to the cultures did not affect intracellular bacterial killing ( Figure 6c ). Finally, we asked the same question using BMM derived from caspase 1 -/-  mice that are unable to secrete the mature form of IL-1β. We observed that AEC sup  activated BMM derived from caspase 1 -/-  mice were able to control efficiently intracellular bacteria growth supporting the notion that IL-1β was not the key molecule in mediating the killing of BCG under these conditions ( Figure 6d ).
L56:Figure 6 AEC sup  induces IL-1β expression and secretion without an effect of intracellular killing of BCG. BMM and PuM were infected with GFP-BCG. After infection, cells were treated with either IFN-γ or AEC sup  or left untreated. a) Total RNA was extracted from both cell-types after 4 and 24 h of treatment and the mean-fold accumulation of IL-1β transcripts shown. Data shows the average of 3 independent experiments. b) Cell culture supernatants were collected 24 h after infection and IL-1β measured with ELISA. Data shows the average of 6 independent experiments. c) The effect of incubating cells with IL-1β (1000 pg/ml) on intracellular growth of BCG. Data representative of 3 independent experiments d) The effect of AECs up  on intracellular growth of BCG in BMM from caspase1 -/-  mice. Bacterial growth was evaluated by determining RLU. Values are expressed as means ± SD from 5 wells. The data is representative of 2 independent experiments. The differences between groups of BMM were analyzed using a one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni‘s Multiple Comparison Test. * significantly different from medium control, P<0.05.
L58:Oxidative burst and the formation of ROS is another mechanism by which intracellular mycobacterial growth may be controlled  [28] . Therefore, we next measured the production of ROS in our infection model. BMM treated with IFN-γ or AEC both displayed a significantly increased total production of ROS which peaked around 10 h after infection by BCG ( Figure 7a ). Using superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase; enzymes that convert superoxide to peroxide and peroxide to water and oxygen, respectively, did not affect the AEC sup -induced killing making it unlikely that the increased killing in cells incubated with AEC sup  was due to an increased oxidative burst ( Figure 7b ). On the other hand, treatment with SOD and catalase partially decreased the IFN-γ-induced killing perhaps because of its effect on the formation of peroxynitrites, as these have been shown to mediate killing of BCG  [29] .
L59:Figure 7 IFN-γ and AEC sup  induce an oxidative burst following infection with BCG. BMM were treated with IFN-γ (20 ng/ml) or AEC sup  24 h prior to infection and then infected with GFP-BCG. a) ROS production was monitored in the cultures for 16 h by measuring luminescence with luminol as substrate. b) The effect of incubating cells with superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase on intracellular killing of BCG is shown. Values are expressed as means ± SD from 5 wells. Differences between treatments with or without SOD/catalase were analyzed using a paired t-test. * significant effect of SOD/catalase treatment, P<0.05.
L61:Since BCG reside in the phagosomal compartment we next addressed whether the increased intracellular killing might be because of increased processing through this compartment. For this, we treated BMM with chloroquine, an inhibitor of phagosomal acidification, after the infection but found that this treatment did not affect the intracellular bacterial control in macrophages receiving IFN-γ or AEC sup  ( Figure 8 ). It is therefore unlikely that treatment with AEC sup  is acting by increasing phagosomal processing.
L62:Figure 8 Inhibiting phagosomal acidification does not affect intracellular killing of BCG. BMM and PuM were infected with GFP-BCG. After infection, cells were treated with either IFN-γ or AEC sup  with or without chloroquine (10 µM). Bacterial growth was evaluated by determining RLU. Values are expressed as means ± SD from 5 wells. The data is representative of 2 independent experiments. Differences between treatments analyzed using a one-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni's Multiple Comparison Test. * significantly different from medium control, P<0.05.
L65:The Th1 cytokine IFN-γ, is able to induce downstream iNOS and consequently, a potent macrophage activator in the killing of intracellular mycobacteria  [22] .We first compared the microbicidal activity induced by IFN-γ on BMM and PuM infected with mycobacteria. BMM but not PuM were able to control intracellular growth of BCG after IFN-γ treatment. Pre-activation of PuM with IFN-γ before infection, did not revert the unresponsiveness of the PuM. Further, this was only observed in PuM and not in other cells of the respiratory tract such us alveolar macrophages or macrophages obtained from the peritoneal compartment. All this suggests that macrophages integrated in tissues are regulated differently than macrophages operating in secretions.
L66:Interestingly, PuM were not completely unresponsive to IFN-γ since even to a lesser extent than for BMM, treatment with IFN-γ induced the secretion of NO and various cytokines such as IP-10, IL-12, IL-6 and TNF  [32] ,  [33]  suggesting that PuM did express IFN-γ receptors but that transmission of signaling was ineffective as far as we could see only for the induction of intracellular killing. This is certainly noteworthy since PuM have the appropriate “killing machinery” successfully induced upon treatment with AEC-derived factors. Even if we do not have a formal explanation for this selective un-responsiveness of PuM to IFN-γ, it may be speculated that these cells can be more restricted in the activation by inflammatory mediators to prevent tissue damage in the lungs. Moreover, unresponsiveness of interstitial macrophages (PuM) to IFN-γ is intriguing and may open a new way of thinking in the current evaluation of the importance of IFN-γ in the defense against tuberculosis and other lung infections. PuM may play a more regulatory role limiting local inflammatory responses  [34] - [37]  in contrast to AM, which are described to behave as a classical macrophage taking up most of the particulate material that is delivered to the alveolar space  [35] ,  [38] ,  [39] .
L70:Since iNOS and Arg-1 are co-regulated, we followed their induction on PuM and BMM after treatment with IFN-γ or AEC-derived media. AEC sup  induced Arg-1 on both cell-types but iNOS was only detected after treatment with IFN-γ. This lack of upregulation of iNOS expression, together with the lack of effect of NMMLA, a NOS inhibitor  [47] , all strongly indicate that mechanisms independent of the iNOS pathway were involved in the macrophage microbicidal activation by AEC factors. The profiles were also different regarding expression of SOCS1, only induced upon IFN-γ activation in both cell types. SOCS1 have been shown to be important in determining macrophage phenotype and function and regulate the balance between Arg-1 and iNOS activity. SOCS1 are also associated with the induction of Arg-1 in IL-4 treated macrophages  [48] . Contrary to the IL-4-induced M2 macrophages described by Whyte et al. we show that AEC-derived factors induced Arg-1 in the absence of SOCS1 expression. Most important, AEC-derived factors promoted control of intracellular bacterial growth in PuM in a SOCS1 independent manner demonstrating that none of the factors secreted by AEC were involved in the induction of SOCS1 despite the fact that AEC-derived factors induced high expression of MMR and Arg-1 similar to M2-like macrophages  [7] .
L71:To explore other possible mechanisms for the control of intracellular bacterial growth promoted by AEC factors, we looked at the formation of reactive oxygen species ROS and to IL-1β involved in autophagy related mechanisms. AEC factors were efficient inducers of IL-1β but, in contrast to what was reported by other groups  [27] , IL-1β was not responsible for the induced intracellular killing in our experimental setup. In BMM, the intracellular BCG growth was not affected by addition of exogenous IL-1β to the cultures. Moreover, BMM from caspase 1 -/-  mice, unable to produce mature IL-1β, efficiently responded to stimulation by AEC factors.
L72:ROS formation may also be important in the control of BCG infection through the oxidative burst  [28] . To a similar extent as IFN-γ, AEC factors were efficient inducers of ROS but by themselves did not contribute to the control of intracellular BCG growth. Finally, we investigated a possible effect on the phagosomal compartment by treating BMM with chloroquine, an inhibitor of phagosomal acidification but we could not observe a major difference between the treated and the untreated groups.
L101:12 Vereyken EJ ,  Heijnen PD ,  Baron W ,  de Vries EH ,  Dijkstra CD ,  et al  ( 2011 )  Classically and alternatively activated bone marrow derived macrophages differ in cytoskeletal functions and migration towards specific CNS cell types .  J Neuroinflammation 
L118:21 Rothfuchs AG ,  Gigliotti D ,  Palmblad K ,  Andersson U ,  Wigzell H ,  et al  ( 2001 )  IFN-alpha beta-dependent, IFN-gamma secretion by bone marrow-derived macrophages controls an intracellular bacterial infection .  J Immunol 
L124:24 Flesch IE ,  Kaufmann SH  ( 1991 )  Mechanisms involved in mycobacterial growth inhibition by gamma interferon-activated bone marrow macrophages: Role of reactive nitrogen intermediates .  Infect Immun 
L175:The authors wish to thank Martin Rottenberg (MTC, Karonlinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden) for supplying the IFN-γ -/- SOCS1 -/-  mice and Sara Musciol and B. Heriques-Normark (MTC, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden) for supplying the Caspase-1 -/-  BMM.
[32ms]
