L7:Tissue macrophages play a crucial role in the maintenance of tissue homeostasis and also contribute to inflammatory and reparatory responses during pathogenic infection and tissue injury. The high heterogeneity of these macrophages is consistent with their adaptation to distinct tissue environments and specialization to develop niche-specific functions. Although peritoneal macrophages are one of the best-studied macrophage populations, recently it was demonstrated the co-existence of two subsets in mouse peritoneal cavity (PerC), which exhibit distinct phenotypes, functions, and origins. These macrophage subsets have been classified, according to their morphology, as large peritoneal macrophages (LPMs) and small peritoneal macrophages (SPMs). LPMs, the most abundant subset under steady state conditions, express high levels of F4/80 and low levels of class II molecules of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). LPMs appear to be originated from embryogenic precursors, and their maintenance in PerC is regulated by expression of specific transcription factors and tissue-derived signals. Conversely, SPMs, a minor subset in unstimulated PerC, have a F4/80 low MHC-II high  phenotype and are generated from bone-marrow-derived myeloid precursors. In response to infectious or inflammatory stimuli, the cellular composition of PerC is dramatically altered, where LPMs disappear and SPMs become the prevalent population together with their precursor, the inflammatory monocyte. SPMs appear to be the major source of inflammatory mediators in PerC during infection, whereas LPMs contribute for gut-associated lymphoid tissue-independent and retinoic acid-dependent IgA production by peritoneal B-1 cells. In the previous years, considerable efforts have been made to broaden our understanding of LPM and SPM origin, transcriptional regulation, and functional profile. This review addresses these issues, focusing on the impact of tissue-derived signals and external stimulation in the complex dynamics of peritoneal macrophage populations.
L11:Macrophages are resident cells found in almost all tissues of the body, where they assume specific phenotypes and develop distinct functions. Tissue macrophages are considered as immune sentinels because of their strategic localization and their ability to initiate and modulate immune responses during pathogenic infection or tissue injury and to contribute to the maintenance of tissue homeostasis ( 1 – 3 ). Macrophages were first identified in the late 19th century by Élie Metchnikoff (1845–1916) and designated as large phagocytes ( 4 ,  5 ). Based on their phagocytic activity, macrophages were first classified as cells from the reticuloendothelial system, which also comprised endothelial cells, fibroblasts, spleen and lymphoid reticular cells, Kupffer cells, splenocytes, and monocytes ( 6 ). However, because endocytosis performed by endothelial cells is a process that is distinct from phagocytosis, by the late 1960s a new classification system for mononuclear phagocytic cells as cells from “mononuclear phagocytic system” (MPS) was proposed ( 7 ). The MPS was defined as a group of phagocytic cells sharing morphological and functional similarities, including pro-monocytes, monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), and their bone marrow (BM) progenitors ( 7 – 12 ). Although the phagocytic cells play similar roles in orchestrating the immune response and maintaining tissue homeostasis ( 11 ), they represent cell populations that are extremely heterogeneous ( 13 ), and the general classification of mononuclear cells in a unique system is currently under intense discussion ( 12 ,  14 ). In this context, Guilliams et al. suggested a classification of MPS cells based primarily on their ontogeny and secondary on their location, function, and phenotype, promoting a better classification under both steady state and inflammatory conditions ( 14 ).
L25:Figure 1 Distinct origin of peritoneal macrophage subsets . SPMs are generated from hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) in the bone marrow (BM) by differentiation of inflammatory blood monocytes ( 31 ,  40 ). However, LPMs appear to be originated from progenitors from yolk sac and independent of hematopoietic progenitors ( 69 ). Local proliferation of LPMs ensures homeostatic maintenance by self-renewal ( 36 ).
L32:Figure 2 Summary of the dynamic of peritoneal macrophage subsets .  (A)  Under homeostatic conditions, peritoneal macrophages comprise two subsets LPMs and SPMs ( 31 ). LPMs, which are the major peritoneal macrophage population, appear to be responsible for phagocytosis of apoptotic cell and tissue repair ( 36 ).  (B)  At the outset of inflammation, the myeloid compartment is modified in general by disappearance of LPMs, increase of SPMs numbers, and monocytes influx ( 31 ,  35 ,  36 ,  40 ). The changes in the myeloid cells from zymosan,  T. cruzi , and LPS stimulated or thioglicollate-elicited PerC result in the gain of immune state ( 35 ,  36 ). SPMs from zymosan and  T. cruzi  stimulated mice contribute to effector function of PerC through secretion of high levels of NO and presence of IL-12-producing cells ( 35 ). In response to LPS  in vivo , SPMs produce several inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-12, MIP-1α, TNF-α, and RANTES, whereas LPMs produce enhanced amounts of G-CSF, GM-CSF, and KC ( 36 ). LPMs, which migrate to omentum by a retinoic acid and GATA-6-dependent way in response to  in vivo  LPS stimulation or vitamin-A deprivation, return to PerC and appear to be correlated with GALT-independent and TGF-β2-dependent IgA production by B-1 cells in the intestine ( 40 ).
L33:The “macrophage disappearance reaction” (MDR) in PerC has been extensively described during delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and acute inflammatory processes ( 84 ). MDR has been associated with cell death, emigration to draining lymph nodes, or adherence of macrophages to structural tissues. LPMs are the unique peritoneal macrophage subset that disappears from PerC, which is attributed not to cell death but rather to their migration to the omentum ( 31 ,  40 ). LPM disappearance in response to inflammatory stimuli is accompanied by an increase in SPM and inflammatory monocyte numbers ( 24 ,  31 ,  35 ,  36 ,  40 ) (Figure  2 B), and has been correlated with the renewal and improvement of immune conditions of the PerC ( 35 ). Adherent peritoneal cells from naive mice, which are composed primarily of LPM, exhibit a high frequency of cells stained for β-galactosamine (β-gal), a senescence marker ( 85 – 87 ). These cells are unable to secrete NO in response to LPS challenge ( 35 ). In contrast, adherent peritoneal cells from  Trypanosoma cruzi  or zymosan-stimulated mice in which the main cell population constitutes SPMs and monocytes (F4/80 low MHCII int Ly-6C + ), respectively, display a significant reduction in the frequency of β-gal-positive cells and secrete high levels of NO in response to LPS ( 35 ). The frequency of IL-12-producing cells after  in vitro  LPS plus IFN-γ stimulation was also higher within myelo-monocytic cells from mice exposed to zymosan and  T. cruzi  than the frequencies of IL-12-producing cells found in unstimulated mice ( 35 ). In response to  Staphylococcus epidermidis  cell-free (SES) supernatant  in vivo  stimulation, F4/80 low CD11b +  cells (consisting of SPMs and DCs) produced enhanced levels of IL-1β, IL-1α, TNF-α, and IL-12 in the presence or absence of subsequent SES treatment ( 37 ). In contrast, the supernatants of adherent cells from naïve mice treated with SES were found to contain high levels of MCP-1, MCP-1α, MIP-1β, and G-CSF ( 37 ). It is important to note that 4 days after thioglycollate injection, peritoneal cells, an extensively studied cell population ( 88 – 91 ), also consist primarily of SPMs and inflammatory monocytes ( 31 ,  40 ). The increase in SPM numbers and the influx of inflammatory monocytes that will give rise to SPMs greatly contribute to the improvement of the capacity of PerC to deal with inflammatory stimuli. Indeed, although neither SPMs nor LPMs produce significant levels of pro- or anti-inflammatory cytokines under steady state conditions ( 35 – 37 ), SPMs appear to develop a pro-inflammatory profile in response to  in vitro  stimuli. SPMs produced high levels of TNF-α, MIP-1α, and RANTES in response to LPS, whereas LPMs were the unique population that produced abundant levels of G-CSF, GM-CSF, and KC in response to the same stimulus ( 36 ) (Figure  2 B).
L105: Characterization of murine macrophages from bone marrow, spleen and peritoneum .  BMC Immunol  ( 2013 )  14 : 6 . 10.1186/1471-2172-14-6 23384230
L107: Distinct bone marrow-derived and tissue-resident macrophage lineages proliferate at key stages during inflammation .  Nat Commun  ( 2013 )  4 : 1886 . 10.1038/ncomms2877 23695680
L131: Alveolar macrophages develop from fetal monocytes that differentiate into long-lived cells in the first week of life via GM-CSF .  J Exp Med  ( 2013 )  210 ( 10 ): 1977 – 92 . 10.1084/jem.20131199 24043763
L138: A clonogenic bone marrow progenitor specific for macrophages and dendritic cells .  Science  ( 2006 )  311 ( 5757 ): 83 – 7 . 10.1126/science.1117729 16322423
[36ms]
