L7:We show that bone marrow stem and progenitor cells containing  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  induce hallmarks of tuberculosis if killing of intracellular bacteria is defective. Understanding the relative contribution of these cells in tuberculosis latency and reactivation could inform novel host-directed therapies.
L15:Harvest of Bone Marrow and FACS Sorting
L16:Mice were sacrificed 4 weeks postinfection by cervical dislocation and femora and tibiae were removed from hind legs. Bone marrow cells were harvested by flushing femora and tibiae with PBS. Bone marrow cells were separated into lin +  and lin −  fractions using a lineage cell depletion kit for mice according to manufacturer’s instructions (Miltenyi Biotec). Lin − Sca1 +  cells were purified from lin −  cells using an anti-Sca1 Microbead kit (fluorescein isothiocyanate) (Miltenyi Biotec). For subsequent identification of cell fractions, lin −  cells were stained with the following antibodies: c-Kit (2B8), Sca1 (D7), CD150 (TC15-12F12.2) (eBioscience). Stained cells were sorted to >98% purity by fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) using an Aria II flow cytometer (BD Biosciences).
L19:Bone Marrow Transfers
L20:Harvested whole bone marrow cells, purified lin +  or Lin − Sca1 +  cell preparations were pelleted and resuspended in PBS at 10 7 /mL, and 100 µL containing 10 6  cells of whole bone marrow cells, purified lin +  cell preparations, or either 5 × 10 5  or 5 × 10 4  Lin − Sca1 +  cell preparation, was transferred into untreated C57BL6 wt or C57BL6  Nos2 −/−  via the tail vein. Mice receiving cell preparations were monitored for signs of weight loss, sacrificed at 8 weeks post–transfer, and spleen, lung, and bone marrow were harvested. Organs were homogenized in PBS-Tween 80  0.05% (vol/vol), plated at suitable dilutions on 7H11 agar plates supplemented with Middlebrook OADC Enrichment (Difco), and incubated at 37°C. Colonies growing on agar plates were enumerated after ≥3 weeks.
L24:We have previously described an experimental murine model of  M. tuberculosis  infection where  Nos2 −/−  mice are able to recapitulate hallmarks of human tuberculosis, including necrotizing granuloma pathology in the lung [ 10 ,  11 ]. As previously reported using this model, where an infectious dose of 10 4  viable  M. tuberculosis  is injected into the dermis, we observed here systemic infection in  Nos2 −/−  mice with cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in the spleen and lung at day 28 postinfection. Dermally infected wt mice showed cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in the spleen at day 28 postinfection. We did not detect cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  from 5 × 10 7  total bone marrow cells at day 28 postinfection from either wt or  Nos2 −/−  mice ( Figure 1A ).
L25:Figure 1. Wild-type (wt) and  Nos2 −/−  mice harbor uncultivable  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  (Mtb) in bone marrow stem and progenitor cell populations 28 days after dermal infection.  A , Both wt and  Nos2 −/−  mice infected dermally with 10 4  cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  showed a lack of cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in the bone marrow at day 28 postinfection. Homogenates of lung and spleen from  Nos2 −/−  and wt mice revealed cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  at this time point (mean ± SEM; n = 5).  B,  lin − , but not lin + , cell preparations from harvested bone marrow are positive for the  M. tuberculosis -specific  IS6110  DNA sequence by PCR (n = 3). All cellular preparations were positive for glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) showing comparable quantities of total DNA at day 28 postinfection.  C,  Representative staining of intracellular  M. tuberculosis  in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) by auramine-rhodamine stain. HSPC nuclei were stained using SYTOX green nucleic acid stain. Left panel shows one HSPC containing stainable  M. tuberculosis  and one uninfected HSPC. Right panel shows an enlarged image of the infected HSC (magnification × 1000).  D,  Frequency of stained intracellular  M. tuberculosis  in HSPC populations purified by FACS (mean ± SEM; n = 3 wt and n = 6  Nos2 −/− ). Highest frequency of intracellular  M. tuberculosis  was observed in Lin − Sca1 + c-kit + CD150 +  cell population, which was enriched for LT-pHSCs and ST-pHSCs. Abbreviation: CFU, colony forming unit.
L26:To assay bone marrow cell populations from infected mice for presence of  M. tuberculosis  that could not be cultured, we sorted bone marrow cells into distinct compartments and probed DNA purified from these cells for the presence of  IS6110 , an insertion element present exclusively in  M. tuberculosis  complex strains, using PCR [ 12 ]. We separated cells based on expression of lineage markers to obtain a lin +  cell population and a negatively selected population lacking these markers (lin − ), enriched for hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Using PCR, we identified  IS6110  by PCR in lin −  but not lin +  cell populations of the bone marrow ( Figure 1B ). To ascertain whether infections of lin −  cell populations were particular to dermal infection with  M. tuberculosis , we examined the bone marrow of wt and  Nos2 −/−  mice 28 days after aerosol challenge with  M. tuberculosis . In this setting, both wt and  Nos2 −/−  mice harbored approximately 10 6 M. tuberculosis  in the lung and 1–100 culturable  M. tuberculosis  colony forming units (CFUs) in the bone marrow. We identified  M. tuberculosis  in both lin −  and lin +  populations using  IS6110  PCR, suggesting that presence of  M. tuberculosis  in lin −  cells was not particular to dermal infection with  M. tuberculosis .
L28:We next investigated whether  M. tuberculosis  present in lin −  cellular fractions could propagate infection when delivered to naive recipient mice. We transferred 10 6  bone marrow cells, containing approximately 1 × 10 4  HSPCs harboring 5–10  M. tuberculosis  stainable with rhodamin-auramin, from dermal-infected wt and  Nos2 −/−  mice to naive recipient mice via the tail vein of recipient mice and monitored recipients for signs of infection. Naive wt recipients of bone marrow cells from  M. tuberculosis  dermal-infected wt donors failed to show cultivable  M. tuberculosis  in spleen and lung at day 56 post-transfer. Remarkably, and in contrast to wt recipients receiving bone marrow cells from  M. tuberculosis  dermal-infected wt donors,  Nos2 −/−  recipients receiving bone marrow cells from  M. tuberculosis  dermal-infected  Nos2 −/−  donors harbored consistent numbers of cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in lung, spleen, and liver ( Figure 2A ,  Supplementary Figure 1 A ). Furthermore, we detected  IS6110  sequences from  M. tuberculosis  in lin −  fractions of bone marrow cells from these mice, as well as 1–100  M. tuberculosis  CFUs ( Supplementary Figure 1 B  and  C ). We conclude from these results that transfer of  M. tuberculosis -infected bone marrow cells from  Nos2 −/− mice into  Nos2 −/− recipients by the intravenous route results in infection with cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in lung, spleen, and bone marrow. When we transferred 10 6 M. tuberculosis  -infected wt bone marrow cells from dermal-infected donors into  Nos2 −/−  recipients, we found no cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in lung, spleen, liver, or bone marrow tissue harvested 8 weeks post-transfer ( Figure 2B ,  Supplementary Figure 1 A  and  C ). These data indicate that the ability to propagate tuberculosis via  M. tuberculosis -infected bone marrow cell transfer in mice was contingent on the inability of both the transferred bone marrow cells and of the host to express  Nos2 .
L29:Figure 2. Transfer of bone marrow cells harboring uncultivatable  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  to naive mice results in tuberculosis.  A ,  Nos2 −/−  mice receiving 10 6  whole bone marrow cells from dermal-infected  Nos2 −/−  mice at day 28 postinfection showed cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in lung and spleen harvested at day 56 post-transfer, while wild-type (wt) mice receiving 10 6  whole bone marrow cells from dermal-infected wt mice day 28 postinfection did not. Transfer of 10 6  lin +  cells from dermal-infected  Nos2 −/−  mice day 28 postinfection to  Nos2 −/−  mice resulted in no cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in lung and spleen at the equivalent time point (mean ± SEM; n = 5).  B, Nos2 −/−  mice receiving 10 6  whole bone marrow cells from dermal-infected wt mice day 28 postinfection failed to show cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in lung and spleen harvested at day 56 post-transfer.  C  and  D,  Hematoxylin and eosin staining of lung sections (magnification × 100) and ( E ) spleen sections (magnification × 50) from  Nos2 −/−  mice receiving 10 6  whole bone marrow cells from dermal-infected  Nos2 −/−  mice day 28 postinfection reveal typical pathology associated with active tuberculosis.  F,  Spleen sections from  Nos2 −/−  mice receiving lin +  cells from dermal-infected  Nos2 −/−  mice show normal splenic architecture (magnification × 50). Abbreviation: CFU, colony forming unit.
L30:Finally, we evaluated the extent of pathology in  Nos2 −/−  recipients resulting from adoptive transfer of  Nos2 −/−  bone marrow cells from  M. tuberculosis -infected donors. Organs were harvested 8 weeks after cell transfer and analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. We observed demarcated granulomas ( Figure 2C  and  D ), similar to those observed after infection of  Nos2 −/−  mice via the dermal route with viable  M. tuberculosis  [ 11 ]. Spleens contained significant regions of cellular necrosis ( Figure 2E ) compared to uninfected controls ( Figure 2F ), indicating active tuberculosis.
L31:Taken together, the bacterial load and pathology reveal that adoptive transfer of  Nos2 −/−  bone marrow cells, with  M. tuberculosis  present predominantly in HSPCs, can infect  Nos2 −/−  naive mice leading to the hallmarks of tuberculosis.
L33:We show that  M. tuberculosis -infected HSPCs in bone marrow are involved in propagating systemic hallmarks of the primary infection after adoptive cell transfer to naive mice, contingent on the inability of these cells to express NOS2. Intriguingly, although tuberculosis was propagated after adoptive transfer of 5 × 10 5  HSPCs as microbead-purified Lin − Sac1 +  cells ( Supplementary Figure 3 A – C ), which contain a mixed population of LT-HSCs, ST-HSCs, and MPPs, transfer of 5 × 10 4  infected LT-HSCs to  Nos2 −/−  mice did not result in tuberculosis (data not shown). We attribute this to the potential involvement of multiple bone marrow stem cell populations in triggering of tuberculosis from the bone marrow niche.
L34:Although it has previously been shown that the vast majority of  M. tuberculosis  in HSC is in a noncultivatable state [ 5 ] and although the experiments presented here have not detected cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in bone marrow cells from the  M. tuberculosis -infected  Nos2 −/−  mice used as donors, we would not rule out that low numbers of cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in HSPC were the origin of cultivatable  M. tuberculosis  in the  Nos2 −/−  recipients. Further characterization of the phenotypic status of  M. tuberculosis  in bone marrow stem cells, beyond that of cultivability on supplemented agar, could support our model as a system by which resuscitation of  M. tuberculosis  and transition to tuberculosis from latent tuberculosis infection can be studied further.
L35:NOS2 is not expressed in resting cells [ 13 ] and thus NOS2 is not active in HSCs. NOS2 is induced by inflammatory cytokines in MSCs and controls growth of intracellular  M. tuberculosis  in vitro [ 14 ] and, similarly, could also be induced in more mature hematopoietic progenitors to kill intracellular  M. tuberculosis , as they develop from HSC. Thus, wild-type bone marrow would retain  M. tuberculosis  only in the resting LT-HSC, as we have seen previously in  M. tuberculosis -infected wild-type bone marrow cells [ 5 ]. However, bone marrow of  Nos2 −/−  mice might harbor  M. tuberculosis  in more-differentiated progenitors, such as MPP, as we have shown ( Figure 1D ). Moreover, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) augments NOS2 expression in MSCs in synergy with interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) in mice [ 15 ]. Because anti-TNF-α treatment is a known trigger of tuberculosis in humans, it is tempting to speculate that blocking of TNF-α may also abrogate the ability of later HSC progenitors and their lineage-positive cellular progeny, as well as MSCs, to control intracellular  M. tuberculosis .
L49: CD271(+) bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells may provide a niche for dormant  Mycobacterium tuberculosis .  Sci Transl Med 2013 ;  5 : 170ra13 .
L57: Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells provide an antibiotic-protective niche for persistent viable  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  that survive antibiotic treatment .  Am J Pathol 2014 ;  184 : 3170 – 5 . 25451154
L59: Preclinical and clinical evidence of  Mycobacterium tuberculosis  persistence in the hypoxic niche of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells after therapy .  Am J Pathol 2015 ;  185 : 1924 – 34 . 26066709
L74:Supplementary Figure 1. Transfer of bone marrow cells harboring uncultivatable Mtb to naïve mice results in TB.  a) Nos2-/- mice receiving 106 whole bone marrow cells (WBM) from dermal-infected Nos2-/- mice day 28 p.i. showed cultivatable Mtb in liver harvested at day 56 post-transfer. Transfer of 106 lin+ cells resulted in no cultivatable Mtb in liver at the equivalent time point (mean  SEM n=5). b) lin- cell preparations from harvested bone marrow of Nos2-/- mice that received 106 whole bone marrow cells from dermal-infected Nos2-/- mice day 28 p.i. are positive for the Mtb-specific IS6110 DNA sequence by PCR. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) PCR shows comparable quantity of total DNA amounts (n=3). c) Nos2-/- mice receiving 106 whole bone marrow cells (WBM) from dermal-infected Nos2-/- mice day 28 p.i. showed cultivatable Mtb in bone marrow (BM) harvested at day 56 post-transfer.  WT mice receiving 106 whole bone marrow cells (WBM) from dermal-infected WT mice day 28 p.i. showed cultivatable Mtb in bone marrow (BM) harvested at day 56 post-transfer (mean  SEM n=4).
L75:Supplementary Figure 2. Both WT and Nos2-/- mice infected via aerosol with ~20 cultivatable Mtb showed similar numbers of cultivatable Mtb in homogenates of lung (a) and in the bone marrow (b) at day 28 p.i. (mean  SEM n=5). c) lin- and lin+ cell preparations from bone marrow harvested from Mtb aerosol-infected WT and Nos2-/- at day 28 p.i. are positive for the Mtb-specific IS6110 DNA sequence by PCR (n=3). Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) PCR shows comparable quantity of total DNA amounts (n=3).
L76:Supplementary Figure 3. HSPCs as microbead-purified Lin-Sac1+ cell preparations from bone marrow cells harvested from dermal-infected Nos2-/- mice day 28 p.i. propagate TB after transfer to naïve mice.  Nos2-/- mice receiving 5 x 105 Lin-Sac1+ bone marrow cells but not 5 x 104 Lin-Sac1+ bone marrow cells showed presence of cultivatable Mtb in lung (a), spleen (b) and liver (c) harvested at day 56 post-transfer (mean  SEM n=4).
[79ms]
