L9|We developed cell culture conditions that mimic the lung alveolar environment in humans using lung lipids,  i.e. , Infasurf (calfactant, natural bovine surfactant) and lung-associated cytokines (GM-CSF, TGF-β, and IL-10) that facilitate the conversion of blood-obtained monocytes to an AM-Like (AML) phenotype and function in tissue culture.
L13|Generation of a non-transformed, GM-CSF–dependent murine macrophage line shows some similarity with mouse AMs ( 9 ).
L14|PPAR-γ enhances  M.tb  growth specifically in lung macrophages, but not in bone marrow-derived or peritoneal macrophages ( 15 ).
L16|Thus, we developed an AML cell model by culturing readily available human blood-derived monocytes [in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) or purified] with an optimized lung component cocktail composed of GM-CSF, TGF-β, IL-10 and Infasurf, a natural bovine-derived surfactant replacement therapeutic that contains phospholipids [26 mg phosphatidylcholine (PC) with 16 mg as desaturated PC], neutral lipids like cholesterol, and 0.7 mg hydrophobic SP-B and SP-C.
L20|We established a method for providing exogenous surfactant components (Infasurf) and specific lung-associated cytokines (GM-CSF, TGF-β, IL-10), critical for AM differentiation, to cultured monocytes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to determine whether the lung-associated components would drive monocyte differentiation into macrophages resembling a HAM phenotype ( 20 ).
L21|We isolated PBMCs from healthy adult human donors and first cultured them in increasing concentrations of GM-CSF, TGF-β and IL-10 without Infasurf for 6 days, during which time monocytes differentiated into macrophages.
L21|Next, to understand the role of individual lung-associated cytokines and surfactant in generating AML cells, we treated PBMCs with GM-CSF, TGF-β, IL-10 and Infasurf individually or in combination and assessed expression of a subset of genes that are differentially expressed in HAM relative to MDM.
L48|We developed an AML cell model using blood-derived monocytes that recapitulates unique features of AMs, which require TGF-β and GM-CSF for development along with IL-10 for maintenance and have a critical role in catabolizing lipid surfactant.
L48|We show that culturing human blood-derived monocytes, either purified or with other PBMCs, in a cocktail containing surfactant, IL-10, TGF-β and GM-CSF allows monocytes to differentiate into AML cells and maintain this phenotype over time in culture.
L52|Importantly, we show that culturing AML cells in Infasurf, IL-10, TGF-β and GM-CSF allows them to better retain a HAM phenotype once adhered.
L54|Prior studies have generated macrophages from primary human cells using specific factors such as GM-CSF or MCSF to generate either M1 or M2 types of macrophages.
L65|To generate AMLs, Infasurf (100 μg/ml), GM-CSF (10 ng/ml), TGF-β (5 ng/ml) and IL-10 (5 ng/ml) were added on days 0, 2, and 4 (three doses of ALL cocktail).
L65|For some experiments, Infasurf, GM-CSF, TGF-β, and IL-10 were only added on day 0 (one dose of ALL cocktail).
L109|Healthy human PBMCs were exposed (Day 0, 2, 4) to lung-associated components [surfactant (Infasurf) and cytokines (GM-CSF, TGF-β, IL-10)] (“ALL cocktail”) for 6 days or left untreated (MDM).
L110|(A-F) PBMCs from healthy human donors were exposed to ALL cocktail [surfactant (Infasurf: 100 µg/mL) and cytokines (GM-CSF: 10 ng/mL, TGF-β: 5 ng/mL, IL-10: 5 ng/mL)] for 6 days after only one administration on Day 0 (1 dose), on alternative days (3 doses), or left untreated (MDM).
L110|(H-K) Monocytes were purified by EasySep ™  human monocyte isolation kit from healthy human PBMCs on Day 0 (Mono) and exposed to ALL cocktail [AML-Mono: surfactant (Infasurf: 100 µg/mL) and cytokines (GM-CSF: 10 ng/mL, TGF-β: 5 ng/mL, IL-10: 5 ng/mL)] for 6 days on alternative days or left untreated (MDM-Mono).
L115|(A-I) PBMCs were exposed to ALL cocktail [surfactant (Infasurf) and cytokines (GM-CSF, TGF-β, IL-10)] for 6 days on alternative days or left untreated (MDM).
L115|(Q-V) Monocytes were purified by EasySep ™  human monocyte isolation kit by negative selection magnetic sorting of healthy human PBMCs on Day 0 and exposed to ALL cocktail treatment [surfactant (Infasurf) and cytokines (GM-CSF, TGF-β, IL-10)] for 6 days on alternative days or left untreated (MDM).
L129|Alveolar macrophages develop from fetal monocytes that differentiate into long-lived cells in the first week of life via GM-CSF.
L136|Induction of the nuclear receptor PPAR-gamma by the cytokine GM-CSF is critical for the differentiation of fetal monocytes into alveolar macrophages.
L139|GM-CSF regulates alveolar macrophage differentiation and innate immunity in the lung through PU.1.