L9|In this study, we provide evidence in both human and murine bone marrow transplant studies that intraductal foam cells are bone marrow-derived.
L9|Although macrophages of different origins and lineages are undoubtedly present within both the murine and human breasts, those macrophages that qualify as phagocytic intraductal foam cells are bone marrow-derived.
L31|We did of course observe β-galactosidase (LacZ) +  cells within mammary stroma ( Figure 7 B), which could represent bone marrow-derived macrophages in transit to become intraductal foam cells.
L33|Although it has been suggested that intraductal foam cells in humans could originate from either tissue-specific embryonic or bone marrow-derived precursors, to date, no clinical study has provided direct proof of their origin [ 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 ].
L33|To our knowledge, ours is the first study that provides direct proof in studies obtained from a human bone marrow transplant registry that human intraductal foam cells are bone marrow-derived.
L34|Although there have been recent murine studies that have used flow cytometry, single cell RNA seq, advanced three-dimensional intravital imaging and transgenic reporter mice crosses that have supported the conclusion that lactation-induced macrophages (liMacs) are derived from circulating monocytes [ 7 , 8 , 9 ], ours is the first study that uses tagged donor marrow murine transplantation to show that murine intraductal foam cells are also indeed bone marrow-derived.
L40|Therefore, these recent studies also support our findings in both mice and humans that intraductal foam cells are indeed bone marrow-derived, engage in phagocytosis largely of endogenous lipid substances, and migrate into ductal lumens.
L42|These intraductal foam cells, therefore, are TAMS in the truest sense of the word and bone marrow-derived.
L43|But certainly, the macrophages that end up as intraductal foam cells but begin as circulating bone marrow-derived monocytes first have had to enter the stromal compartment of the breast.
L85|Alternatively, the subset of bone marrow-derived myeloid–macrophage lineage cells destined to become intraductal foam cells, which also participate as TAMs in the setting of DCIS may have acquired its phenotypic properties at an earlier stage ranging from its bone marrow origin, circulating monocyte pool, or entrance into the mammary stroma.