L7|In vitro , human primary macrophages are derived from peripheral blood CD14 +  monocytes in the presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) or granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF).
L7|Distinct phenotypes of macrophage subsets under the influence of M-CSF and GM-CSF raise the question of optimal conditions for culturing primary macrophages to study host-pathogen interaction.
L13|While macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) has been applied to induce monocyte differentiation into macrophages for host-pathogen interaction, recent studies reveal that granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is influential in skewing macrophage differentiation into distinct phenotypes.
L17|To address this important issue, cytokines optimal for macrophage differentiation is discussed and the current strategy of using human M-CSF to drive monocyte differentiation  in vitro  models to study host-pathogen interaction is re-visited.
L19|Monocytes differentiate into resting or inflammatory macrophages under the influence of M-CSF and GM-CSF, respectively [ 9 ], or into M1 and M2 by interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and IL-4 priming, respectively [ 10 - 12 ].
L21|Role of M-CSF and GM-CSF in macrophage differentiation
L22|The M-CSF controls the primary regulator of mononuclear phagocyte production  in vivo  and plays an essential role in the survival, proliferation, differentiation, and maturation of the macrophage myeloid lineage [ 14 ].
L22|This suggests that GM-CSF is necessary for host defense against pathogen invasion, while M-CSF is essential for driving monocyte differentiation into macrophage  in vivo .
L23|On the other hand, GM-CSF expression is spatially regulated and dramatically up-regulated at inflammation or infection sites [ 4 ], suggesting that macrophage differentiation during inflammatory reactions is under the influence of GM-CSF, which causes a massive increase in the macrophage population of the spleen and liver to induce hepato-splenomegaly [ 21 ].
L23|Thus, the basal level of M-CSF is required to maintain the homeostasis of tissue macrophage through M-CSF signaling, while the local and temporal increase in GM-CSF, which inhibits M-CSF signaling during inflammation, polarizes monocytes to differentiate into inflammatory Mϕ during the inflammatory reaction and shift back to resting macrophages after the infection-induced inflammation is removed [ 4 ].
L26|Recently, Fleetwood et al. compared the different responses of murine bone marrow-derived macrophages subsets GM-BMϕ and M-BMϕ to LPS stimulation.
L80|Wiktor-Jedrzejczak W Ratajczak MZ Ptasznik A Sell KW Ahmed-Ansari A Ostertag W CSF-1 deficiency in the op/op mouse has differential effects on macrophage populations and differentiation stages Exp Hematol 1992 20 1004 1010 1505635
L84|Fixe P Lorgeot V Le Meur Y Coupey L Heymann D Godard A Praloran V Development of enzymo-immunoassays (EIA) for macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) by using the same capture and signal generating polyclonal antibody Cytokine 1996 8 586 591 10.1006/cyto.1996.0078 8891440