L1|Establishment of bone marrow-derived M-CSF receptor-dependent self-renewing macrophages
L11|Here, we show the presence of adult bone marrow-derived macrophages that retain self-renewing capacity.
L11|The self-renewing macrophages were readily obtained by long-term culture of mouse bone marrow cells with macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), a key cytokine for macrophage development.
L15|It was believed that tissue-resident macrophages in an adult are maintained by a constant replenishment by bone marrow-derived circulating monocytes in the steady state, and the monocyte-derived macrophages are non-proliferating cells 1 .
L16|Nevertheless, several in vivo studies using mice have demonstrated that bone marrow-derived monocytes can also differentiate into self-renewing tissue-resident macrophages that resemble their embryonic counterparts, under certain circumstances 5 – 8 .
L16|For instance, multiple fate-mapping approaches showed that arterial macrophages arise embryonically from CX3CR1 +  precursors and postnatally from bone marrow-derived monocytes that colonize the tissue immediately after birth, and the proliferation of the two populations sustains arterial macrophages in the steady state and after severe depletion of sepsis 8 .
L16|Thus, it appears that the pool of tissue macrophages can be maintained by the recruitment of monocytes, and the proliferation of both embryo-derived macrophages and bone marrow-derived macrophages 9 – 11 .
L17|Fejer et al. recently reported the isolation and expansion of mouse fetal liver-derived self-renewing macrophages, which proliferate in vitro for an extended period in almost unlimited numbers in the presence of a cytokine, granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) 12 .
L17|The fetal liver-derived macrophages (MPI cells) also proliferate in the presence of another cytokine, macrophage CSF (M-CSF, also known as CSF-1), albeit in a slower rate than the presence of GM-CSF 12 .
L17|The isolation and expansion of mouse yolk sac-derived M-CSF-dependent macrophages have also been reported 13 .
L17|However, it is not well understood what molecular mechanisms enable the embryo-derived self-renewing macrophage model to proliferate for a long period in the presence of cytokines, in particular, M-CSF, a key regulator for macrophage development in most tissues 14 , 15 .
L17|In addition, the isolation and expansion of an adult counterpart, that is, bone marrow-derived M-CSF-dependent self-renewing macrophage cell model has not been reported yet.
L18|Here, we report a simple culture method to enrich and expand M-CSF-dependent self-renewing macrophages from mouse bone marrow, and their phenotypical and functional characteristics.
L21|BM bone marrow, MΦ macrophages.  b  Primary bone marrow-derived macrophages were detached, seeded at 3 × 10 5  cells/well, and cultured for 4 days in the absence (none) or presence of 100 ng/ml rhM-CSF.
L21|The cells were serially passaged and the number of viable cells was counted (mean ± SD,  n  = 3).  c  After the fourth passage, cells were cultured for 2 weeks in the presence of rhM-CSF and stained by Wright-Giemsa staining.
L21|Colonies appeared are indicated by yellow arrowheads (left panel).  d  Colonies appeared as in  c  were collected, reseeded, and cultured for 7 days in the presence of rhM-CSF.  e  After the fourth passage, cells were cultured for 2 weeks in the presence of rhM-CSF (defined as “day 0”) and analyzed for the expression of MHC-II by flow cytometry.
L21|The mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) and the percentage of positive cells (for MHC-II) are shown.  f  The MHC-II low  and MHC-II high  fraction observed as in  e  (day 12) were sorted and cultured for up to day 16 in the presence of rhM-CSF, and the number of viable cells was counted (mean ± SD,  n  = 3).  g  The MHC-II low  cells expanded in  f  were reseeded and cultured for 8 days in the presence of rhM-CSF.
L22|We therefore cultured bone marrow cells of C57BL/6 mice in the presence of M-CSF, and repeated detachment and reseeding of macrophages (Fig.
L25|The number of viable cells was counted (mean ± SD,  n  = 3).  b – d  In  b , the self-renewing macrophages (lower) and primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (upper) were analyzed for the expression of M-CSF receptor (M-CSFR) by flow cytometry.
L25|In  c , the self-renewing macrophages were transfected with control (Cr) or M-CSF receptor-specific siRNA, cultured for 2 days in the presence of rhM-CSF, and subjected to flow cytometric analysis to verify the efficient knockdown.
L25|In  d , the transfected cells prepared as in  c  were cultured for 2 days in the absence (none) or presence (100 ng/ml) of either rhM-CSF or rmIL-34, and their proliferation was assessed using the MTT assay.
L25|The number of cells is shown, by setting the value of the control (leftmost) as 100% (mean ± SD,  n  = 3), * p  < 0.05.  e  The self-renewing macrophages were cultured for 2 days under the conditions indicated, and their proliferation was assessed using the MTT assay. rhM-CSF, rmGM-CSF, rmIL-33, and rmIL-4 were used.
L25|The number of cells is shown by setting the value of the control (M-CSF at 10 ng/ml, second left) as 100% (mean ± SD,  n  = 3), * p  < 0.05.
L26|3e , right) without affecting M-CSF receptor expression (Supplementary Fig.
L26|When combined with a suboptimal concentration of M-CSF (10 ng/ml), IL-33 slightly stimulated the proliferation (Fig.
L28|4 The phenotypes and functions of the self-renewing macrophages. a ,  b  In  a , the self-renewing macrophages (lower) and primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (upper) were analyzed for the expression of cell surface proteins indicated by flow cytometry.
L28|MFI mean fluorescence intensity.  c  The self-renewing macrophages (lower) and primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (upper) were cultured in the presence of rhM-CSF alone or copresence with liposomal clodronate for 2 days.
L28|The number of cells is shown by setting the value of the control (liposomal clodronate free) as 100% (mean ± SD,  n  = 3), * p  < 0.05.  d  The self-renewing macrophages (lower) and primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (upper) were analyzed for the relative levels of multiple cytokines and chemokines in their culture supernatants using an antibody array.  e  The self-renewing macrophages (circle) and primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (square) were cultured for 2 days in the presence of rhM-CSF and the indicated concentration of LPS.
L29|5 The differentiation of the self-renewing macrophages into dendritic cells or osteoclasts. a  The self-renewing macrophages were cultured for 5 days with rhM-CSF (upper) alone or rmGM-CSF plus rmIL-4 (lower).  b  The self-renewing macrophages were cultured as in  a , and analyzed for the expression of CD80, CD11c, or MHC-II by flow cytometry.
L29|MFI mean fluorescence intensity.  c  The self-renewing macrophages were cultured for 7 days with rhM-CSF (upper) alone or rhM-CSF plus rhRANKL (lower), and subjected to tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) staining.  d  The self-renewing macrophages were cultured as in  c  for 5, 6, or 7 days.
L30|5c–e ) when cultured under differentiation-inducing conditions, that is, GM-CSF plus IL-4 for dendritic cells, or M-CSF plus RANKL for osteoclasts.
L32|Macrophages of mice with combined deficiency for transcription factors, MafB and c-Maf, continuously proliferated in an ex vivo culture with M-CSF 16 .
L33|The expression level of these genes relative to GAPDH is shown.  c  The self-renewing macrophages or primary bone marrow-derived macrophages were M-CSF-depleted and restimulated with rhM-CSF for the indicated periods, and analyzed for the expression of KLF2 (upper) or c-Myc (lower) by qRT-PCR (mean ± SD,  n  = 3).
L33|The expression level of these genes relative to GAPDH is shown.  d  The self-renewing macrophages or primary bone marrow-derived macrophages were M-CSF-depleted and restimulated with rhM-CSF for the indicated periods, and analyzed for the expression of MafB by qRT-PCR (mean ± SD,  n  = 3).
L42|In this study, we report the expansion of the adult bone marrow-derived, non-tumorigenic M-CSF-dependent self-renewing macrophages.
L43|Of interest, at the basal level, the MPI cells exhibited higher expression of KLF4 and c-Myc (KLF2 was not included in the analysis) and lower expression of c-Maf and MafB, when compared to bone marrow-derived primary counterparts 12 .
L45|In mice studies, non-proliferating macrophages prepared by culturing bone marrow cells with M-CSF or GM-CSF for 5–7 days are generally used.
L52|Total bone marrow cells, which were obtained from C57BL/6 mice, were suspended into RPMI1640 media supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated FCS and 100 ng/ml rhM-CSF (complete media) at a density of 3 × 10 5  cells/ml, seeded onto non-coated 10-cm dishes, and cultured for 5–7 days.
L53|Establishment of bone marrow-derived self-renewing macrophages
L54|These cells were hereafter referred to as bone marrow-derived self-renewing macrophages, and maintained with complete media.
L66|Self-renewing macrophages were cultured with RPMI1640 medium supplemented with 10% FCS, 10 ng/ml rmGM-CSF, and 10 ng/ml rmIL-4 for 5 days.
L68|Self-renewing macrophages were cultured with α-MEM medium supplemented with 10% FCS, 100 ng/ml rhM-CSF, and 100 ng/ml rhRANKL for up to 7 days.
L70|To assess the levels of mRNA of target genes after the stimulation with M-CSF macrophages maintained with rhM-CSF were factor-depleted for 6 h or longer 39 , and then left untreated or treated with 100 ng/ml rhM-CSF.
L70|In selected experiments, rhGM-CSF (10 ng/ml) was used as a reference.
L72|In brief, cells were suspended in antibiotic-free RPMI1640/10% FCS/100 ng/ml rhM-CSF media, seeded onto six-well plates (2 × 10 5  cells/well), and cultured for 1 day.
L93|Davies LC Distinct bone marrow-derived and tissue-resident macrophage lineages proliferate at key stages during inflammation Nat.
L94|Scott CL Bone marrow-derived monocytes give rise to self-renewing and fully differentiated Kupffer cells Nat.
L95|Bain CC Long-lived self-renewing bone marrow-derived macrophages displace embryo-derived cells to inhabit adult serous cavities Nat.
L134|1a, and cultured in the presence of rhM-CSF as indicated.
L138|The self-renewing macrophages were cultured for 2 days with rhM-CSF alone or rhM-CSF plus rmIL-4 (10 or 100 ng/ml) as indicated, and analyzed for the expression of M-CSF receptor (M-CSFR) by flow cytometry.
L140|(a) Microarray analysis showing genes with differential expression between the self-renewing macrophages and primary bone marrow-derived macrophages.
L141|(b) In the microarray analysis, Eph2 was high in the self-renewing macrophages whereas CD61 was high in primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (data not shown), which was confirmed by flow cytometry.
L142|(c) Enrichment plots of activated TLR4 signaling (upper) and NF-B/MAPK activation mediated by TLR4 signaling (lower) following Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of the microarray data from self-renewing macrophages versus primary bone marrow-derived macrophages.
L144|(a) Primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (Primary), once passaged primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (+1 passage), and the self-renewing macrophage clone (#2, #5 and #6) were analyzed for the expression of KLF2, KLF4, c-Myc or MafB by qRT-PCR (mean±SD, n=3).
L144|The fold change for each gene relative to primary bone marrow-derived macrophages is shown.
L147|The un-transfected self-renewing macrophages cultured with M-CSF (M-CSF+) or M-CSF-depleted for 12 hours (M-CSF-) were also analyzed as references.