L14|In this study,  via  the well-established GM-CSF and M-CSF differentiated bone marrow derived macrophage models (GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs), we compared four commonly used enzymatic (trypsin and accutase) and non-enzymatic (PBS and EDTA) dissociation methods along with necessary mechanical detaching steps (scraping and pipetting) to evaluate the viable cell recovery and cell surface marker integrality of GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs cultured on standard cell culture dish (TC dish), or on culture dish (noTC dish) that was not conditioned to enhance adherence.
L14|However, in LPS treated samples, the difference of gene expression patterns, signaling pathways and molecular functions between TC and noTC cultured BMDMs were largely dependent on the types of growth factors (M-CSF and GM-CSF).
L18|The use of bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) is one of the most well-established means of studying macrophage biology  in vitro , as they were believed to represent the phenotypes and characteristics of  in vivo  macrophages ( 1 ).
L18|GM-CSF and M-CSF derived BMDMs (GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs) could resemble different macrophage maturation features of classically activated proinflammatory M1-like and alternatively activated restorative M2-like macrophages, respectively ( 2 ).
L19|Multiple attempts were made to optimize the cell culture condition and methods to diassociate M-CSF differentiated macrophages.
L19|In previous studies, accutase was reported to be a mild and highly efficient dissociation solution for detaching M-CSF primed monocyte derived macrophages (M0), IL4 challenged M0 (M2) and LPS+IFNγ challenged M0 (M1) when compared with EDTA and trypsin solutions ( 7 ,  8 ).
L19|However, the efficiency of different dissociation methods for BMDMs differentiated by GM-CSF, a growth factor previously proven to enhance the adhesion of monocytes, neutrophils, and macrophages ( 9 – 11 ), has not been reported, nor has there been a comparison made between the ease of dissociating GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs.
L20|For example, TC cultured BMDMs were utilized to explore the immunocompetence of GM-CSF and M-CSF primed macrophages and the heterogeneity of cell populations in GM-CSF primed bone marrow cells ( 12 ,  13 ).
L20|At present, the influence of TC and noTC culture conditions on surface marker expression and inflammatory responses of GM-CSF and M-CSF primed BMDMs are not yet thoroughly investigated, which makes interpreting results extremely difficult.
L27|Bone Marrow Derived Macrophage (BMDM) Culture
L28|The cell suspensions were passed through 100 μm cell strainer, collected by centrifugation at 300 g for 10 minutes, and resuspended in DMEM containing 10% FBS, 100 U/ml penicillin, 100 μg/ml streptomycin, either with 50 ng/ml M-CSF or 20 ng/ml GM-CSF.
L28|Cells (0.5×10 6  per ml for M-CSF and 1×10 6  per ml for GM-CSF) were seeded on TC or noTC dishes respectively and cultured at 37°C with 5% CO2 for 7 days without changing the media throughout the maturation process.
L196|These data suggested that culture condition interfered signaling pathways were different in GM-CSF and M-CSF differentiated BMDMs post LPS challenge, pointing to the diverse impacts of culture dish on gene expression at inflammatory state.
L215|However, dissimilarity of the influence of culture conditions in GM-BMDMs and M-BMDMs also existed, in which some of them relied on cell states (LPS challenge or not) and others depended on growth factors (GM-CSF and M-CSF).
L235|Several reports compared different dissociation methods in M-CSF primed monocyte-derived macrophages challenged with or without IL4 or LPS+IFNγ ( 7 ,  8 ).
L235|In the present study, we compared different detaching methods and found that accutase was the optimal approach for the detachment of M-CSF and GM-CSF differentiated BMDMs with high cell viability and intact cell surface markers.
L236|However, some cell functions such as cell adhesion and cell cycle were interfered, partially dependent on differentiation growth factors (GM-CSF and M-CSF).
L238|In summary, we performed systematic evaluation of four commonly used detaching methods for GM-CSF and M-CSF primed BMDMs cultured on TC and noTC dishes treated with or without LPS.
L261|Adhesion, Motility and Matrix-Degrading Gene Expression Changes in CSF-1-Induced Mouse Macrophage Differentiation .
L269|GM-CSF Mouse Bone Marrow Cultures Comprise a Heterogeneous Population of CD11c(+)MHCII(+) Macrophages and Dendritic Cells .
L276|Proteomic Analysis Reveals Distinct Metabolic Differences Between Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) and Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (M-CSF) Grown Macrophages Derived From Murine Bone Marrow Cells .
L313|Substrate Stiffness Modulates Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophage Polarization Through NF-kappaB Signaling Pathway .